19
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Star_Wars:_Episode_III_Revenge_of_the_Sith
Star Wars: Episode III Revenge of the Sith
154706

|legends_timeline=19 BBYThe New Essential Chronology dates the events of to 19 BBY. |series=Prequel trilogy, Star Wars saga |preceded by=Episode II Attack of the Clones |followed by=Episode IV A New Hope }} }} Star Wars: Episode III Revenge of the Sith is a 2005 film written and directed by George Lucas. It is the third and final part of the Star Wars prequel trilogy. Three years after the First Battle of Geonosis and onset of the Clone Wars, the noble Jedi Knights of the Jedi Order have been leading a massive clone army into a galaxy-wide battle against the Confederacy of Independent Systems. The Supreme Chancellor of the Galactic Republic reveals his true nature as a Sith Lord as he unveils a plot to rule the galaxy by transforming the Republic into a Galactic Empire. The Jedi war hero, Anakin Skywalker, is seduced by the dark side of the Force to become Darth Sidious's new apprentice - Darth Vader. The Jedi are all but eliminated with Obi-Wan Kenobi and Jedi Master Yoda surviving the event and being forced to go into hiding. The only hope for the galaxy is Anakin's own offspring &mdash; the twin children born in secrecy who will grow up to become Luke Skywalker and Leia Organa. Revenge of the Sith was released in theaters on Thursday, May 19, 2005 (the same day that the first episode of the prequel trilogy The Phantom Menace was released in 1999), and premiered (out of competition) on the 2005 Cannes Festival May 15. The film was generally positively received by critics, especially in comparison to the two previous prequels. It broke several box office records in its opening week and went on to earn over US $800 million worldwide, making it the second highest-grossing movie of 2005 behind Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire. It is the second Star Wars film which used a high-definition digital 24 frame system for most of the movie's live-action scenes. The film was re-released in the Blu-ray format in September of 2011. On November 12, 2019, the film was included with the launch of Disney+. On April 25, 2025, it was re-released in theaters for its 20th anniversary for one week only; the re-release was also presented in 4DX for the first time. It has been three years since the events of Attack of the Clones. The Galactic Republic is in the midst of the epic war with the Confederacy of Independent Systems under the leadership of Count Dooku, who is also the Sith Lord, Darth Tyranus. The Confederacy's cyborg military leader, General Grievous of the Separatist Droid Army, has brought the war to Coruscant and captured Supreme Chancellor Sheev Palpatine, leader of the Galactic Senate, during a massive space battle. As the Separatist Droid Army attempts to escape the Galactic capital, a massive space battle continues, into which race Jedi Master Obi-Wan Kenobi and his former padawan, now Jedi Knight Anakin Skywalker, leading a mission to rescue the Chancellor. The Jedi fight through the Separatist armada. In the process, Obi-Wan's interceptor is damaged by buzz droids and his astromech, R4-P17, is destroyed. Anakin attempts to shoot the droids off, though succeeds only in blasting apart the wing of his former Master's vessel. Obi-Wan tells Anakin to hold his fire as he's not helping. Anakin agrees it was a bad idea. Obi-Wan tells Anakin to go on and rescue the Chancellor, but Anakin says he won't leave without Obi-Wan. Anakin uses one of his fighter wings to knock some of the buzz droids off Obi-Wan's fighter, but one manages to crawl onto Anakin's ship although it is quickly disabled by R2-D2. thumb|left|350px|Anakin Skywalker and Obi-Wan Kenobi as brothers-in-arms As they approach Grievous's flagship, the Invisible Hand, Obi-Wan reminds Anakin their shields are still up, so Anakin breaks formation and attacks a shield generator, knocking out the shields on the docking bay of the ship. The destruction of it activates the ship' emergency breach door, which quickly begins closing. The two Jedi crash-land just before the door slams closed. Anakin and Obi-Wan make their way through the flagship, using their lightsabers to fight through an army of droids. Meanwhile, R2-D2 aids them from the hangar bay while simultaneously incinerating a pair of super battle droids, using fuel and his thrusters. thumb|right|250px|Count Dooku prepares to duel Anakin and Obi-Wan. The Jedi reach the top, finding the captive Chancellor Palpatine. They are confronted by Count Dooku himself, with Obi-Wan telling Anakin that they will fight Dooku together, and an intense lightsaber duel ensues. The Jedi throw the Count off guard, by converting from basic attacks to more skilled tactics. During the battle, Obi-Wan is rendered unconscious when Dooku uses the Force to hold him in mid-air by the throat before hurling him against a railing. While Obi-Wan lays injured, Anakin continues the battle and is repeatedly taunted by Dooku. Using his anger, Anakin taps into the dark side of the Force and gets the better of the duel. He severs both of Dooku's hands, rendering him incapable of defending himself, and then holds him at blade point with both his own lightsaber and Dooku's weapon. Palpatine encourages Anakin to kill Dooku, much to the shock of the latter who looks at the Chancellor pleadingly, only to be met with a sinister smile from Palpatine. At first, Anakin hesitates but Palpatine firmly insists; completely unaware of Palpatine's true intentions, Anakin viciously decapitates the helpless Dooku. His body falls to the ground and his head falls fast to the ground and rolled like a bowling ball. The Invisible Hand crosses paths with the Venator-class Star Destroyer Guarlara. A brief broadside attack begins with both ships firing their cannons, a shell from the Guarlara lands a direct hit on one of the Invisible Hands flak cannons magazines, causing the Invisible Hand to begin an uncontrolled descent into Coruscant. Despite Palpatine's persuasions that he should leave the unconscious Obi-Wan, Anakin carries him on his back, and maneuvers through the ship with the Chancellor. Obi-Wan later regains consciousness. thumb|left|250px|[[General Grievous aboard the bridge of his flagship, Invisible Hand]] After Grievous has the bridge crew regain control of his flagship by firing the emergency booster engines, he makes certain the two Jedi and their ward are captured. Having fallen foul of a ray shield trap, the three are brought to the bridge under custody, but R2 successfully creates a distraction, allowing the Jedi to retrieve their lightsabers and break free. Grievous then sends a pair of his powerful IG-100 MagnaGuard droids after the Jedi. Obi-Wan quickly beheads the first MagnaGuard with his blade, but the droid continues the fight, forcing Obi-Wan to slice the droid warrior apart before it deactivates. Anakin finishes off the second MagnaGuard and destroys the battle droids attempting to drag Palpatine from the bridge. The Jedi close in on Grievous, though the wily General smashes a window with his fallen guard's electrostaff, and is swept outside. Using a tow cable, Grievous latches himself to the ship and heads for the escape pods. Launching all other escape capsules, Grievous sped to the Trade Federation Lucrehulk-class battleship, Profusion for safety. Once again, the flagship begins to descend in free fall into Coruscant, though due to its extensive damage taken from its broadside cannon fight with the Guarlara and entering Coruscant's atmosphere, the ships hangar bay begins to weaken. After extending the ship's drag flaps, the hangar gives out and breaks off from the rest of the ship, sending them into a faster freefall. With the aid of a few emergency firespeeders they land, hitting a control tower along on one of Coruscant's industrial landing platforms. thumb|right|250px|The [[Jedi High Council discusses the recent turn of events.]] On Coruscant, Anakin is praised for his heroics. He meets secretly with Padmé Amidala, and they share a kiss in the shadows of the Senate office building, keeping their love secret. She reveals to him that she is pregnant with their child. Elsewhere, Grievous, now both the political and military leader of the Separatists, arrives on Utapau, where Trade Federation Viceroy Nute Gunray, Geonosian Archduke Poggle the Lesser, Techno Union head of state and Foreman Wat Tambor, and others on the Separatist Council remain in hiding. The General is contacted by Darth Sidious, who gives him instructions to move the Separatist leaders to a volcanic planet, Mustafar. He also explains that the war is almost over. Grievous is uncertain about this, given Count Dooku's death. Sidious assures him that Darth Tyranus's death and loss were necessary, for he would soon have a new Sith apprentice: one far younger and more powerful. Later, on Coruscant, Anakin awakens in a panic, covered in sweat. He reveals to Padmé that he has been dreaming about her dying in childbirth, and believing that he can't live without her, vows not to let this dream come true. Chancellor Palpatine requests Anakin's presence, and they meet in the Chancellor's office. The Senate has granted the Chancellor further emergency powers, giving him direct control of the Jedi Council. Palpatine confides in Anakin his fear, distrust, and contempt of the Masters. He appoints Anakin to be his personal representative on the Council. The High Council begrudgingly accepts Anakin's appointment, but does not grant him the rank of Master. Anakin reacts angrily at this perceived slight, but is quickly shut down by Mace Windu. Ignoring his outburst, the Council goes on to discuss matters concerning the war. It is decided that Anakin will be assigned to protect the Chancellor, and Yoda will take a battalion of clones to reinforce the Wookiees on Kashyyyk. Anakin is angry and disappointed. Obi-Wan later tells Anakin that the Council wants Anakin to report on all the Chancellor's dealings, essentially spying on him. Anakin is confused and upset, feeling torn between two friends and loyalties. Obi-Wan himself is unhappy with the situation. thumb|left|300px|[[Darth Sidious|The Supreme Chancellor and Anakin Skywalker in Palpatine's private viewing box at the Galaxies Opera House]] At the Galaxies Opera House in the Uscru District, Anakin joins Palpatine in watching the Mon Calamari Aquatic Ballet performing Squid Lake. Palpatine tells Anakin Clone Intelligence has located General Grievous hiding in the Utapau system. Anakin is delighted by this news, as Grievous's capture will accelerate the war's end. Palpatine remarks that he'd question the competence of the Jedi Council if Anakin was not sent on the mission. Inviting Anakin to join him, Palpatine dismisses his aides: once they are gone, Palpatine seduces Anakin to the dark side. He also tells Anakin that the Jedi Order wishes to overthrow the Republic and that if he has suspected it, Anakin must surely have sensed it. Anakin confirms that the Jedi don't trust him, a fact that Palpatine expands to include the Senate, the Republic, and democracy as a whole. Anakin tells Palpatine that his trust in the Jedi has been shaken and Palpatine deduces Anakin's distaste for the Council's mission to spy on the Chancellor. Palpatine takes Anakin back to some of the early political lessons Palpatine tried to teach him, about how all those who gain power are afraid to lose it and that includes the Jedi. Anakin tries to defend the Jedi by saying they use their powers for good, but Palpatine argues good is only a point of view, noting that in almost every conceivable manner, including a quest for greater power, the Sith and the Jedi are exactly alike. Anakin disagrees, remarking that the Sith depend on passion for strength, thinking only of themselves, whereas the Jedi are selfless, thinking only of others. After a brief pause in their conversation, Palpatine makes a remark about the tragedy of Darth Plagueis the Wise. Palpatine describes Darth Plagueis as a Dark Lord of the Sith so powerful and wise that he could use the Force to influence the midi-chlorians to create life. Not only this, but having such power and knowledge of the dark side, Plagueis could use thistle ability to save people he cared about from death, a statement which gets Anakin's attention (which was Palpatine's desire) and Palpatine describes the dark side of the Force as a pathway to many abilities considered by some to be unnatural. When Anakin asks what happened to Darth Plagueis, Palpatine concludes that Plagueis became so powerful that all he feared was losing his power, which he eventually did. Unfortunately for Plagueis, he taught his apprentice, who happened to be Darth Sidious, all he knew: after he had, his apprentice killed him in his sleep. Palpatine notes the irony of how Plagueis could keep others from dying, but not himself. When Anakin asks if it is possible to learn the power to stop death, Palpatine simply replies, "Not from a Jedi," further alienating Anakin from the Jedi Order. After Yoda arrives on Kashyyyk, Anakin relays the information about Grievous, explaining that a partial message was intercepted in a diplomatic packet from the Chairman of Utapau. Yoda says they should act quickly and decisively on this information. When Anakin expresses his interest in going at Palpatine's request, Mace Windu harshly tells him that the Council will decide who goes and not the Chancellor. Yoda believes that a Master with more experience is needed to confront, and defeat, Grievous. Ki-Adi-Mundi agrees and nominates Obi-Wan to go. With the nomination agreed on, the Council adjourns and Obi-Wan prepares to go to Utapau. Yoda, Luminara Unduli, and Gree, along with Tarfful and Chewbacca defend Kashyyyk against the Corporate Alliance Tanks, Dwarf Spider droids, Droid Gunships, and legions of battle droids. thumb|right|250px|Grievous twirls his four sabers as the battle commences. Anakin walks Obi-Wan to a Jedi cruiser before he leaves. Anakin still believes he'd be needed on Utapau, and while Obi-Wan agrees, he also notes it might just be a wild Bantha chase. Anakin stops Obi-Wan and tells him that he knows he's disappointed Obi-Wan and that he's not been acting very grateful for the training he received. Anakin tells him he's just been so frustrated with the Council lately, but that he does apologize. Obi-Wan calls Anakin strong and wise and tells Anakin he's very proud of him and while Obi-Wan trained him since Anakin was a boy, he calls Anakin a far greater Jedi than Obi-Wan could hope to be. But Obi-Wan encourages Anakin to be patient and that it won't be long before the Council makes Anakin a Jedi Master. The two bid each other farewell and Obi-Wan leaves for Utapau. Little do they know that this is the last time they will see or speak to each other as fellow Jedi and friends. Obi-Wan arrives in Pau City on Utapau, and begins his search for General Grievous, riding a varactyl named Boga. He finds Grievous on the Tenth Level. After Obi-Wan dispatches the droids around Grievous, the two engage in single combat. Grievous's arms split in half, allowing him to use four lightsabers at once. Obi-Wan quickly cuts off the lower halves of the General's hands, helping to even out the odds a little. During the battle, the Third Systems Army arrives under the command of CC-2224 "Cody." Obi-Wan manages to catch Grievous off guard and uses the Force to push the fiendish droid general into the ceiling. Grievous drops his remaining two lightsabers and attempts to flee on his wheel bike, while Obi-Wan pursues on Boga. During the chase, Obi-Wan drops his lightsaber, which Commander Cody happens to find during the massive battle against the droids. On Coruscant, Anakin tells Palpatine that General Grievous has been found on Utapau. Anakin insists he should be on Utapau as well. Their conversation shifts to Palpatine's knowledge of the Force and dark side, both of which he learned from his mentor (Plagueis), much to the shock of Anakin who starts to become wary of the Chancellor. After Palpatine tells him that the dark side can save Padme from death, Anakin realizes that Palpatine is in fact Darth Sidious, the latter of which Palpatine confirms (This revelation means that Palpatine as Sidious engineered the Invasion of Naboo and War, betrayed and caused the deaths of Plagueis and Dooku, and has been deceiving the Jedi and Republic). Anakin ignites his lightsaber and threatens to kill Palpatine, but then decides to expose his deception and identity to the Jedi Council. He is still concerned with saving his wife, and believes only Palpatine's knowledge will ensure this. Obi-Wan continues to chase General Grievous on Utapau. He catches up with the General and jumps onto his wheel bike. Using Grievous's electrostaff, he manages to destabilize the speeder, and it goes into a spin. Both Obi-Wan and Grievous are thrown off as the speeder topples over the edge of Grievous's secret landing platform. Grievous then draws his blaster, though it is knocked from his hand by Obi-Wan, now wielding the electrostaff. He knocks Grievous down, and a brawl ensues, during which Kenobi tears open the General's chest plates, revealing his living organs. Enraged, Grievous repeatedly hits Obi-Wan and then picks up the helpless Jedi and throws him over the edge. Obi-Wan barely manages to hang on and momentarily dangles for his life. As Grievous moves in for the kill, Obi-Wan uses the Force to retrieve the General's blaster and fires at Grievous's exposed organs. He hits, and they burst into flames. With his eyes flaming, Grievous falls to the floor, dead. thumb|left|300px|Palpatine finally reveals his identity as the Dark Lord of the Sith, Darth Sidious. Anakin returns to the Jedi Temple and approaches Windu who tells Anakin that they have just been informed that Obi-Wan has destroyed General Grievous and so they are going to go to the Senate to ensure that Chancellor Palpatine gives back his emergency powers. However, Anakin reveals that Palpatine is a Sith Lord and is not likely to give up his powers, a statement which shocks Windu and stops him dead in his tracks. Anakin confirms what he just said and says he believes Palpatine is the one they have been looking for. When Windu asks how Anakin knows this, he tells Windu that Palpatine knows the ways of the Force and has been trained to use the dark side and that he is absolutely sure. Windu says their worst fears have now been realized and that if the Jedi Order is to survive, they must move quickly. Anakin warns Windu that Palpatine is very powerful and they'll need his help to arrest Palpatine, but Windu urges him to stay out of it as he senses much fear in Anakin and it could cloud his judgment. Windu also adds that if what Anakin says is true then Anakin will have gained his trust but for now, he wants Anakin to wait in the Council Chambers until he returns. Masters Windu, Kit Fisto, Agen Kolar, and Saesee Tiin board a gunship and head to Palpatine's office. Sitting in the Council Chambers, remembering Palpatine's promise of stopping death and the dreams of Padmé dying in childbirth, Anakin ruminates over his decision: in his mind, he hears Palpatine's voice saying that if the Jedi kill him, any chance of saving Padmé will be lost. Finally, he leaves and rushes after the four Jedi. Windu and the three other Jedi Masters arrive at Chancellor Palpatine's office. Windu declares Palpatine is under arrest and the Masters ignite their lightsabers. Sidious pulls a lightsaber from his sleeve and hurls himself at the Jedi with a screeching war cry. Kolar is the first to die, run through the chest and as Kolar's life is ending due to the wound, Sidious turns and slices Tiin's torso. A few seconds later, with more effort from Sidious, Fisto is slain, killed by a slash across the gut. Only Windu remains, alone against the Dark Lord. 250px|thumb|[[Darth Sidious|Sidious' face becomes disfigured by his backfired Force lightning.]] Sidious and Windu continue the fight, dueling fiercely. The fight appears to be even early on, but Windu gradually gains ground, slowly driving the Sith Lord out of the Chancellor's antechamber and into the office proper. Shortly after the two shatter a large glass window, Windu delivers a kick to Sidious, leading to Sidious falling down and losing his lightsaber. Anakin arrives just as Windu holds Sidious at blade point. Windu declares Sidious has lost, but the Sith Lord then unleashes a torrent of Force lightning. However, Windu deflects it with his blade, casting much of the energy back into Sidious' body. Sidious becomes hideously deformed; his face becomes deathly pale and sagged, his teeth become yellow and rotten, his fingernails become long and dirty, and his eyes turn burning yellow with blood-red rims. He then ends his assault, claiming he is too weak to fight on. As Windu is deciding to kill Sidious, Anakin argues that Palpatine must stand trial: Windu disregards this, stating Sidious's control over the Senate and courts make him too dangerous to be left alive. Anakin is finally forced to choose between the Jedi Order or Padmé. As Windu is about to deliver the killing blow, Anakin betrays Windu and cuts off his sword arm. Sidious, cackling with glee, tortures and blasts the shocked Windu out of the window, sending him plunging to his death hundreds of stories below. Anakin is horrified by his actions, yet he knows now there is no turning back now that he betrayed the Jedi. He pledges allegiance to Sidious, in return for the Dark Lord's power to stop death, in the hope of saving his beloved wife. Sidious takes Anakin as his Sith apprentice, bestowing upon him the Sith name "Darth Vader." Sidious instructs Vader launch Operation: Knightfall, to ensure the so-called Jedi Rebellion is crushed, and then wipe out the Separatist Council on the Mustafar system, before declaring that "Once more the Sith will rule the galaxy." Vader leads the 501st Legion to the Jedi Temple. He and the clones rampage through the Temple, cutting down every Jedi that crosses his path, including swordsmaster Cin Drallig and even the younglings hiding out in the Council Chamber. thumb|left|250px|[[Anakin Skywalker|Darth Vader just prior to murdering younglings in the Council chamber.]] Meanwhile, from his office, Sidious broadcasts a command to Commander Cody and many other clone troopers spread throughout the galaxy: to execute Order 66, a protocol to kill all Jedi, to which the Clones comply (explained in seasons 6 and 7 of Star Wars: The Clone Wars). Across the galaxy, the Jedi Generals find themselves being betrayed and murdered by their clone troopers. As this happens, Yoda feels everyone who is dying. On Utapau, Kenobi is flung off a cliff by a blast from an All Terrain Tactical Enforcer, but he and Boga survive the drop, and Obi-Wan flees on Grievous's hidden starfighter; on Mygeeto, Jedi Master Ki-Adi-Mundi is gunned down by CC-1138 and the 21st Nova Corps; on the lush, tropical planet of Felucia, Jedi Knight Aayla Secura is murdered by CC-5052 and his 327th Star Corps; on Cato Neimoidia, Plo Koon's Jedi starfighter is shot down by Aggressive ReConnaissance-170 starfighters, sending it smashing into a clone staging area; and on Saleucami, Stass Allie's 74-Z speeder bike is destroyed by CC-8826 and his wingman, riding BARC speeders. On Kashyyyk, Yoda is overlooking the ongoing battle as Commander Gree receives the order. He and Captain Jek attempt to sneak up to Yoda, but the aged Master senses their intent and beheads both clones with a slash of his lightsaber. Tarfful and Chewbacca help Yoda escape the planet. Senator Bail Organa arrives at the flaming Temple to witness the slaughter of a young Padawan named Zett Jukassa by a squad of troopers led by Commander Appo. Organa, horrified, flees the scene and departs Coruscant in the Tantive III, in an attempt to make contact with any surviving Jedi. thumb|right|250px|[[Ki-Adi-Mundi leads his troops on Mygeeto just before the enactment of Order 66.]] Both Obi-Wan and Yoda survive Order 66 and are picked up by Senator Organa, having evaded pursuit. The Jedi decide to return to Coruscant to recalibrate the Jedi beacon calling for all Jedi to return to Coruscant, knowing that it's really a trap set by Darth Sidious. Kenobi hopes to instead warn any surviving Jedi to stay away from the Temple. Following the attack on the Jedi Temple, Vader returns to Padmé at the Senate Apartment Complex, from where the smoke rising from the wrecked Temple can be seen. He tells her the Jedi have tried to take over the Republic, and there are traitors in the Senate. He asks for her loyalty to the Chancellor, then tells her that he will go to the Mustafar system, where the remaining Separatists have gathered, to end the war. Through a hologram, Sidious informs the Separatist Council that Vader would take care of them once he arrived, though the council is unaware that Sidious had betrayed them and truly sent Vader to kill them. Vader arrives on Mustafar and is greeted by Viceroy Gunray, but the Sith apprentice quickly traps the Separatist Council in the bunker. He slaughters Poggle the Lesser, Rune Haako, Po Nudo, and Wat Tambor among others. He leaves Gunray until last, slicing the Neimoidian across the chest even as he pleads for his life. It is at this point that the first physical manifestation of the dark side in Vader begins to show itself, as his irises turn a pallid yellow, the rest of his eyes taking on a bright crimson hue. The Senate holds a special session where Palpatine tells them of the "plot of the Jedi to overthrow the Senate," but that it was foiled. Amidst thunderous applause, he informs the Senate that the surviving Jedi will be hunted down and defeated. He then states that "in order to ensure the security and continued stability, the Republic will be reorganized into the first Galactic Empire," which Palpatine describes as creating a safe and secure society. As the majority of the Senate screams their approval, Padmé Amidala and Bail Organa, who are shocked at the result, simply look around and Padmé can only remark "So this is how liberty dies, with thunderous applause." thumb|left|250px|The [[Imperial Palace|Jedi Temple burns.]] In the meantime, Obi-Wan and Yoda go to the Jedi Temple, slaying several clones and walking in disbelief through the carnage. Yoda notices that several of their fellow Jedi were cut down by a foe wielding a lightsaber. They recalibrate the Temple's signal to warn all surviving Jedi to keep away from the Temple, but then Obi-Wan, wanting to know the truth, checks the security hologram recordings. To his horror, one recording shows Vader dueling Younglings and then kneeling before Sidious. Yoda says they must destroy the Sith, but Obi-Wan is reluctant to kill Anakin and wants to go after the Emperor instead. Yoda, however, states that Obi-Wan is not strong enough to face Sidious and that Anakin is gone, "consumed" by Vader. Yoda sets out to confront Sidious, telling Obi-Wan to "use his feelings" to find Vader. Following Yoda's advice, Obi-Wan visits Padmé asking where Anakin is and tells her that he has turned to the dark side and killed many Jedi in the temple, and also that everyone was deceived by Sidious who was behind everything which includes the war. Despite her anguish, Padmé refuses to reveal where her husband has gone. Obi-Wan deduces that Padmé is carrying Anakin's child, who already knew the two had been together all along and apologizes to her for what he had no choice to do before leaving. On Mustafar, Vader surveys the violent landscape around him and weeps over his recent acts of violence; knowing he cannot turn back from the influence of Darth Sidious. Later, Padmé leaves Coruscant in her star skiff, departing for Mustafar to find her husband and the truth. Unknown to her, Obi-Wan secretly stows away aboard the ship just before it takes off. 200px|thumb|Darth Sidious and [[Yoda, masters of the Force, battle each other.]] The star skiff lands on Mustafar, and Padmé is greeted by a smiling Vader. Padmé reveals her conversation with Obi-Wan; he tells her it is only lies but does not deny the accusations. Padmé also tells him Obi-Wan knew about them together, wanting to help them & begs him to run away with her to raise their child in peace. Vader, mad with power, claims that they no longer have to run away and he can overthrow Palpatine so that the two of them can rule the galaxy together. Padmé, realizing how much her husband has changed, backs away in horror and tearfully begs him to stop, insisting she still loves him. As she pleads, Obi-Wan steps out onto the star skiff's boarding ramp. Upon seeing him, Vader becomes enraged and accuses Padmé betraying him for Obi-Wan. Without even allowing her a chance to explain herself, he begins Force-choking her. Obi-Wan intervenes and demands Vader to release Padmé, but Vader still chokes her unconscious. Turning his anger on Obi-Wan, Vader accuses him of turning his wife against him, but Obi-Wan retorts that Vader has done that himself and let himself be twisted by Sidious' lies, becoming a Sith. Vader refuses to listen and rants that he has brought order to his "new empire." Obi-Wan, unable to believe what he is hearing, prepares to fight. Vader fumes that those who are against him are his enemies and engages Obi-Wan in a ferocious duel between Master and Apprentice. thumb|left|200px|Obi-Wan and his fallen apprentice battling on [[Mustafar.]] In the Chancellor's office within the Imperial Senate Building, Yoda confronts Palpatine. He tells him that he knows of Anakin's turning, while addressing him as his Sith name. Sidious uses Force Lightning to push the Jedi Master backwards into a pillar. Obi-Wan and Vader battle over the bridge and enter the Klegger Corp Mining Facility, making their way through the hallways. Returning to Coruscant, Sidious tells Yoda that the Jedi will be no more. The Jedi master stands up and pushes him backwards past the desk. They engage in an intense battle using their lightsabers and Force abilities. At the Mustafarian Mining Complex, Obi-Wan and Vader battle in the conference room on the desk. Vader attempts to force choke the Jedi Master with the enabled lightsaber. Obi-Wan loses it after getting kicked in the stomach, but he retrieves it. Yoda resumes fighting Sidious until they are taken the Galactic Senate Chamber, the heart of the Senate. Vader is still battling Obi-Wan, who is on the defensive. They fight at the command center with the dead Separatist leaders on the floor. A missed slash from Vader's lightsaber damages a computer console, deactivating the facility's shields. As the door opens, Obi-Wan and Vader exit the mining facility and head outside. At the Galactic Senate Chamber, Sidious hurls Senate pods at Yoda, and the effort to avoid them exhausts the Jedi Master. Sidious then blasts Yoda with Force Lightning, causing the Jedi master to lose his lightsaber. With the last of his strength, Yoda redirects it back at him, but this causes an explosion that throws both himself and Sidious over the edge of the pod. Obi-Wan and Vader's battle continue on as they tip-toe across some pipes. A Mustafarian mining droid briefly passes by them. The pair jump onto a bridge and walk onto some large stalks. At the same time, lava begins to erupt towards Vader and Obi-Wan, forcing them to take cover from raining debris. The lava cuts off a collection arm attached to the main structure. Sidious is able to hold on to a senate pod, while Yoda falls to the senate floor leaving his cloak behind. With Bail Organa's help, Yoda flees the Senate Building, intending to go into exile. Back on Mustafar, the rest of the battle resumes. Obi-Wan and Vader ride the collection arm down the lava river below, which falls over a molten waterfall. Abandoning the arm, Obi-Wan leaps onto a hovering mining platform below, with Vader pursuing him back up the lava river atop a collection droid. Obi-Wan appeals to his old friend one last time, but Vader still refuses to see reason, forcing Obi-Wan to accept that his student, friend, and brother is corrupted beyond redemption. After fending off another attack from Vader, Obi-Wan disengages as the platform nears the shore of the lava river, leaping up onto the black sand bank. Obi-Wan warns Vader that he now holds an unassailable position, but Vader, enraged and bloodthirsty, yells "You underestimate my power!" and foolishly leaps up to kill his old Master the same way Obi-Wan ended Maul. With a swift sweep of his blade, Obi-Wan slices off Vader's left arm and legs. Vader tumbles down the embankment and rolls to a stop at the edge of the river of lava. As Obi-Wan watches, Vader, helpless and now fully consumed by the dark side, tries in vain to pull his crippled, smoking body up the embankment with his one remaining mechanical arm. Obi-Wan is overcome with disgust and sadness at the pitiful fate of "The Chosen One," and is reduced nearly to tears. He angrily shouts that Vader has failed in his life and destiny, and has hurt all those who loved him, including Obi-Wan himself. All Vader can do is scream in pain and powerless rage, cursing his former friend and Master. The lava below Vader then ignites his leg, setting him on fire, horribly burning and disfiguring him, with Obi-Wan turning away from the terror, unwilling to kill him. After briefly staring at the charred, mutilated figure that was once Anakin Skywalker, Obi-Wan turns and walks away, taking Anakin's dropped lightsaber with him. He returns to the star skiff and leaves the planet with the unconscious Padmé and her droids. Obi-Wan feels guilt for failing Anakin & Padmé's happiness. Sidious arrives on Mustafar with a group of shock troopers led by Commander Thire. They rescue Darth Vader from the edge of death using a stasis pod and Sith medicines held in the Emperor's shuttle. On the isolated asteroid Polis Massa, Yoda meditates and hears the spirit voice of Qui-Gon Jinn. The voice tells him that there is a way to merge with the Force and retain consciousness after death. In order to learn this power, Yoda declares himself an apprentice to the spirit of Qui-Gon Jinn. thumb|right|250px|The remains of Vader's limbs are retrofitted with [[Cybernetics|prosthetics.]] Obi-Wan arrives at Polis Massa with Padmé, who is given emergency medical treatment by the facility's droids. She is dying, having lost the will to live. The medical droids work to save her babies&mdash;she has twins, much to the surprise of Bail Organa, Obi-Wan, and Yoda. A boy and a girl are born. In her last few dying breaths, Padmé gives them the names "Luke" and "Leia." As his children are born, Vader is being rebuilt at the Grand Republic Medical Facility on Coruscant. Vader is given new legs, a new arm, mechanized lungs, and other "replacement parts." He is dressed in black armor, a face mask is sealed tightly, and his helmet is fitted. Darth Vader begins to breathe through his mask. Most, if not the entire surgery is carried out in true dark-side form, with Vader wide awake and apparently unanesthetized, leaving him moaning, screaming, and writhing in excruciating agony. With Padmé's final breath, she maintains that there is still good in Anakin. She dies still believing in the man she loved, before his violent acts against the Jedi Order and the Separatist Council. Obi-Wan watches her go sadly. Vader is raised to a standing position, his surgery complete. Vader begins to speak through his vocabulator to the Emperor, asking about Padmé. Sidious, seeking to cut Vader's last tie to his old life and permanently cement the dark side in his heart, lies to Vader, telling him that he accidentally killed his wife while Force choking her. With his last shred of hope and love now gone and his mind broken by the realization that he himself killed the person he wanted to save, Vader rips himself free of the operating table and unleashes a powerful scream of rage, shame, and grief through the Force, shattering the droids and equipment. Vader screams "Nooo!" in anger and despair, while the Emperor looks on with an evil grin. thumb|left|250px|[[Anakin Skywalker|Darth Vader and his master watch as the first Death Star is constructed.]] On board the Tantive III, docked at Naboo, Obi-Wan, Yoda, and Bail Organa sit at a conference table. They agree to preserve Padmé's pregnant appearance, thus faking the children's deaths. For their own safety, Luke and Leia will be split up in hopes that the Sith will not sense their presence. Leia will be adopted by Bail Organa, and Luke would be sent to his father's step family on Tatooine. Obi-Wan and Yoda will watch and wait until the time is ready for the Skywalker children to do their part. Yoda tells Obi-Wan to study the technique Qui-Gon learned to achieve immortality. Bail Organa leaves R2-D2 and C-3PO in the care of Captain Raymus Antilles of the Tantive III. He orders a memory wipe of the talkative protocol droid. On Naboo, Padmé's funeral takes place in a solemn ceremony in Theed. Her hands clasp the japor snippet given to her by Anakin following his departure from Tatooine some thirteen years ago. To protect her children, her body appears to still be pregnant. In a deleted scene, Yoda travels to Dagobah to begin his self-imposed exile, which he partly owes as penance for his failure to defeat Sidious. On the bridge of a gray-hulled Imperial Venator, Vader, the Emperor, and Governor Wilhuff Tarkin oversee the construction of a moon-sized battle station. On Alderaan, the infant Leia is brought by Bail Organa to his wife, Queen Breha. On Tatooine, Obi-Wan brings Luke to his new family: his uncle, Owen, and his aunt, Beru. Obi-Wan leaves on an eopie, heading to his exile in the Jundland Wastes. As the movie and prequel trilogy ends, Owen and Beru, holding the infant Luke, look out to the horizon and watch the setting of Tatooine's twin suns. One piece of concept art Lucas approved for use as a starship in the film was described as a "Republic Clone Sky Fighter", but the ship ultimately was not included in the film. The design was later reused years later for the Star Wars: The High Republic multimedia initiative, much to the joy of its creator, Warren Fu. Fu is also notable for creating the concept art for the "Droid General" character who evolved into Grievous. One of his previous Grievous designs was used for the MagnaGuards. Principal photography for Revenge of the Sith took place from June 30 to September 17, 2003. Most of the filming took place at Fox Studios, Sydney. An additional block of studio photography took place during late 2004 at Shepperton Studios and an Elstree Film Studio both in the UK. There is a short end sequence shot at Chott el Jerid in Tunisia, during the filming of Star Wars: Episode II Attack of the Clones in 2000 to avoid returning to the country for a single scene. Second unit filming was at Grindelwald in Switzerland, Guilin in China, Phuket in Thailand, and Mount Etna in Italy. Revenge of the Sith charity premieres took place in Seattle, Los Angeles, Chicago, Washington D.C., Boston, Denver, Atlanta, San Francisco, and Miami on Thursday, May 12, 2005; and on May 13, 2005, there were two additional charity premiere screenings in George Lucas's hometown of Modesto. On that same day, an episode of MTV's Total Request Live aired promoting the movie, featuring a performance from the band Good Charlotte. The film's official premiere was at the Cannes Film Festival (out of competition) on May 15, 2005. It was released in most other countries on May 19. It was predicted that the premiere of Revenge of the Sith would cost the US economy approximately $627 million USD because of employees who would take the day off or report in sick. Due to its dark undertones, disaster scenes and violent nature (mainly the scene where Anakin is burned alive in a rather graphic and realistic manner, as well as Dooku's decapitation and Grievous' internal organs being burned out), Revenge of the Sith is the first Star Wars film to receive a PG-13 rating from the MPAA. All previously released films in the series were rated PG. In contrast, A New Hope was originally rated G, but its rating was deliberately pushed up in order to attract a broader audience and because of the addition of Owen and Beru Lars' remains. In the DVD commentary for Revenge of the Sith, Lucas makes an offhand comment regarding the Death Star seen in the final moments of the film. He explains that it was exactly the same one as seen in A New Hope, and goes on to say that it would be "a bit of a stretch," but explains that due to "union disputes and supply problems," it took 19 years to build. The canon novel Tarkin by James Luceno, set five years after Revenge of the Sith, explores some aspects of the construction of the Death Star. The book Catalyst: A Rogue One Novel, also written by James Luceno, went into more detail about how the Republic secretly began the project and how it continued to expand under the Empire's direction. Thrawn and Thrawn: Treason also show some aspects of the production and supply issues of the Death Star. The movie Rogue One: A Star Wars Story sheds further light on the construction of the Death Star, as it depicts how the Rebel Alliance came to have the Death Star plans. Within the Legends continuity, Kevin J. Anderson's novels Jedi Search and Champions of the Force explain that a prototype Death Star was built in preparation for the construction of the first Death Star in A New Hope. These conflicting accounts were retconned in The New Essential Chronology, which stated that the former was a testbed prototype for the superlaser to be installed on the latter. The Chronology also mentions the fact that in order to ensure protection from sabotage, the construction site was moved to various locations throughout the nineteen-year gap between Revenge of the Sith and A New Hope, indicating that there were various attempts by unknown persons to disable or even destroy the massive battle station, a theory supported by a line from A New Hope where Vader proclaims that "There will be no one to stop us this time" in regard to the Death Star and its plans. The another Legends novels The Dark Nest Trilogy, written by Troy Denning, explore the continuity pieces about the holographic recordings of Anakin, Padme, and Obi-Wan in R2's memory banks. Although the Skywalker family saga comes full circle, Luke Skywalker and Leia Organa still don't know their mother's identity, but Luke has stumbled on a memory of R2-D2's that contains her image, even he watches a hologram of Anakin Force-choking Padmé, as well as his and Leia's birth. Denning shows Artoo's desire to hide these recordings from Luke – no doubt feeling he will learn something hurtful – while couching it in the fact that the astromech droid has developed quirks in his circuitry. The Legends video game Star Wars: The Force Unleashed revealed that Galen Marek greatly damaged the Death Star while infiltrating the station to rescue Rebel leaders. This was held to be a partial explanation for why it took so long to build the Death Star as well as Vader's line "There will be no one to stop us this time." A novelization of the film was written by Matthew Stover. It includes much more dialogue than the movie. The duel between Obi-Wan and Anakin is lengthened and is much more exaggerated. It also contains many references to Expanded Universe characters, such as Raith Sienar or Garm Bel Iblis, for example, and some details, like the way Shaak Ti meets her fate, and Captain Needa's appearance at the Battle of Coruscant differ from their movie counterparts. Aside from Anakin and Obi-Wan's duel, however, the final act is very compressed, especially in comparison to the opening space battle, which encompasses the first third of the book. Dark Horse Comics published a comic adaptation of the film in March 2005. Other books include the prequel novel Labyrinth of Evil and the sequel novel Dark Lord: The Rise of Darth Vader. A video game based on the film was released on May 5, 2005, two weeks before the film. The game followed the movie's storyline, for the most part, integrating scenes from the movie. However, many sections of the game featured cut scenes from the movie or entirely new scenes for the game. The style of the game was mostly lightsaber combat and fighting as Obi-Wan or Anakin/Vader. One unique and popular aspect of the game was that it included an alternate ending, which functioned as such to both the game and the movie, which involved Obi-Wan warning Vader about having the high ground, to which Vader leaps and dodges Obi-Wan's attempted Mou kei and subsequently stabs his former master in the back, killing him. After his death, Vader kicks Obi-Wan's lifeless corpse down the black sand bank, grins, and walks off, as Palpatine arrives on Mustafar to congratulate Vader on his victory. Vader proceeds towards Sidious' docked shuttle, and the new emperor declares the galaxy to belong to the both of them and gives Vader his new, red-bladed lightsaber. After quickly examining his new lightsaber, Vader ignites it and impales his Sith master, declaring the galaxy to belong only to him. The film's soundtrack was released by Sony Classical on May 3, 2005&mdash;more than two weeks before the release of the film. The music was composed and conducted by John Williams, and performed by the London Symphony Orchestra and London Voices. A music video titled A Hero Falls was created for the film's theme "Battle of the Heroes," featuring footage from the film. Star Wars Episode III: Revenge of the Sith was released on DVD on November 1, 2005 (in Canada and the United States). The DVD was a two-disc set that has picture and sound mastered from the original digital source material. It includes a new full-length documentary as well as two featurettes, one which explores the prophecy of Anakin Skywalker as the Chosen One, the other looking at the movie's stunts. The 15-part web documentary series "Making Episode III" and a playable Xbox demo of Star Wars: Battlefront II (which was released simultaneously with the DVD) were also included in the set. The release was the first Star Wars film (and the first major film of all time) never to be widely released on VHS (for example, it was released on VHS in Australia). This caused some backlash from fans collecting both the DVD and VHS versions, who complained that their VHS set was not complete without Episode III. Both the DVD and VHS versions had only one alteration from the film's digital theatrical cut; A straight cut replaced a wipe between the scene where Obi-Wan leaves Mustafar and the scene where Vader climbs away from the lava. (The wipe was reinstated for the Blu-ray release.) Disc 1: *DVD Menu themes based on planets from the movie: Coruscant, Utapau, and Mustafar *Available subtitles: English *Available Audio Tracks: English (Dolby Digital 5.1 EX), Spanish (Dolby Digital 2.0 Surround), French (Dolby Digital 2.0 Surround) *Commentary by writer-director George Lucas, producer Rick McCallum, animation director Rob Coleman, and ILM visual effects supervisors John Knoll and Roger Guyett *Hip hop Yoda music video, an easter egg containing a non-canonical musical performance by Yoda and a group of clone troopers from the 41st Elite Corps (in phase II armor) in the Jedi Temple. (This was the first release not to contain a secret blooper reel of footage from filming as an easter egg.) The video introduces us to a dancing Yoda, break-dancing in the Jedi Temple along with bopping clone troopers. This easter egg can be activated by putting Disc 1 in a DVD player, selecting "Options," and highlighting the THX logo and punching in the numbers "11,"Depending on a DVD remote's format, some may have to push 10+ before "11." For those who cannot activate the easter egg with the former method, the bonus is title 10 on the disc. "3," and "8," waiting for the pause after each number. Disc 2: *Main DVD Menu's theme is based on the Invisible Hand *Exclusive deleted scenes with introductions by George Lucas and Rick McCallum *"Within a Minute" documentary film about the making of the Mustafar battle *"The Chosen One" featurette: George Lucas traces the myth of Darth Vader through episodes 1-6 *"It's All for Real: The Stunts of Episode III" *A 15-part collection of Lucasfilm's Web documentaries *Star Wars: Battlefront II trailer and Xbox game demo *Star Wars: Empire at War PC game trailer *"A Hero Falls" music video *Poster and print campaign *Trailers and TV spots *Production photo gallery *DVD-ROM content includes a free trial of Hyperspace: The Official Star Wars Fan Club Wal-Mart stores included an exclusive bonus disc, entitled The Story of Star Wars, with some copies of Revenge of the Sith, when it arrived on DVD. As with many previous Star Wars "history" featurettes, it is hosted R2-D2 and C-3PO. Presented in full frame with Dolby Digital 2.0 sound and running an hour in total, it was originally produced and released in 2004 as a 3-disc collection for the VideoNow Color personal video player. The DVD version contains the content from the first two discs: The Story of Anakin Skywalker and The Story of Luke Skywalker. The footage used contains no scenes from Revenge of the Sith nor does it have the changes contained in the 2004 DVD Special Edition releases. Other retail stores gave away a few collectors items. At Target, Collectors would receive a collectors coin from the film, featuring Darth Vader on the "heads" side of the coin, and the Mustafar duel on the "tails" side of the coin. A $5 gift card was also given to the buyers of the DVD. The gift card features Vader, and has lights and sound added to it. Finally from Target, a bonus CD-Rom came with the Episode III soundtrack. At Best Buy, fans who belonged to the Rewards Zone would receive a Star Wars print by the artist Shepard Fairey. Revenge of the Sith was released on Blu-ray in September 2011. On April 7, 2015, the Walt Disney Studios, 20th Century Fox, and Lucasfilm jointly announced the digital releases of the six released Star Wars films. As Lucasfilm had retained digital distribution rights to Episodes I to III and V to VI, Walt Disney Studios Home Entertainment released Revenge of the Sith for digital download on April 10, 2015. Despite the Walt Disney Company's 2012 purchase of Lucasfilm and the release rights to all future Star Wars films, Fox was to retain original distribution rights to Star Wars: Episode IV A New Hope, which they co-produced and co-financed, in perpetuity in all media worldwide. Fox was also to retain theatrical, nontheatrical, and home video rights worldwide for the franchise's five subsequent films, which Lucasfilm produced and financed independently, through May 2020, at which time ownership was to transfer to Disney. This complex relationship between Fox and Disney, particularly in regards to Fox's perpetual rights to Episode IV, was to create an obstacle for any future boxed set comprising all nine films. On December 14, 2017, The Walt Disney Company announced that it was acquiring most of Fox's parent company, 21st Century Fox, including the film studio and all distribution rights to A New Hope. On March 20, 2019, the deal was officially completed. On April 12, 2019, a Blu-ray box set containing the nine main installments of the Star Wars saga remastered in 4K was reportedly announced to be in development for a 2020 release. In interviews, George Lucas said that George Bush was not an influence in writing the movie. Rather, he wrote the basic story outline in the 1970s during the Vietnam War, thinking of President Richard Nixon. He stated at Cannes, "The parallels between what we did in Vietnam and what we're doing in Iraq now are unbelievable." Lucas added that in more general terms, his story represents how any democracy can turn into a dictatorship with the consent of the people, like Caesar of Rome and Napoleon I of France. In the era of the internet, Revenge of the Sith has proven to be a major source for content in internet meme culture. In particular, Kenobi's greeting to Grievous on Utapau, "hello there," has arisen to one of the most famous Star Wars memes and has been referenced in official works,Obi-Wan 5Age of Republic - Obi-Wan Kenobi 1 even being included as Kenobi's greeting to Luke Skywalker within the Obi-Wan Kenobi Disney+ series, where Ewan McGregor and Hayden Christensen reprised their roles as Kenobi and Vader, respectively. Six deleted scenes were included on Disc 2 of the DVD: *"Grievous Slaughters Shaak Ti" - The death of Shaak Ti by General Grievous on board the Invisible Hand. Deleted due to time constraints, and because the story was changed that Grievous left Shaak Ti on Coruscant alive, and she didn't die. *"A Stirring in the Senate" - The First Meeting of the Rebel Alliance. Deleted because it took away from the central plot of Anakin Skywalker. *"Seeds of Rebellion" - The Second Meeting of the Rebel Alliance. Deleted because it took away from the central plot of Anakin Skywalker. *"Confronting the Chancellor" - The Presentation of the Delegation of 2000 to Palpatine. Deleted because it took away from the central plot of Anakin Skywalker. *"A Plot to Destroy the Jedi?" - Mace Windu senses the destruction of the Jedi Order. Deleted due to time constraints and because the point was already known. *"Exiled to Dagobah" - Yoda lands on Dagobah. Deleted for fear it would clutter up the endings instead of making it just "father, mother, and the kids." Rick McCallum is quoted as saying that this was the biggest loss for him to the film and he hopes to see it on a future edition. Other scenes were also cut from the film: *Obi-Wan visits Senator Amidala to discuss Anakin, and tell her that he knows of her marriage. This scene features in the script, novel and comic book adaptation of the film, albeit differing slightly in each. *Obi-Wan selects Boga from the other varactyls. An animatic of this scene was put on StarWars.com in November 2007. *The Deaths of Luminara Unduli and Barriss Offee. This scene was never shot. *The Order 66 "death" of Quinlan Vos. This scene was never shot. *The Order 66 death of Mina Podia. This scene was never shot. *Another death of Shaak Ti, elaborated in the novelization: Ti is stabbed in the back by Darth Vader during his raid on the Jedi Temple while she is meditating. She asks Anakin what happened to Windu, Fisto, Kolar, and Tiin. Skywalker replies by stabbing her in the back (a similar death of Shaak Ti appeared in LEGO Star Wars: The Video Game). *Obi-Wan eluding the Nos monster, a natural predator of Utapau, after falling into the sinkhole on Utapau. *Talk scenes between Aayla Secura and Bly, and Plo Koon and Jag. *An ambush scene by Yoda, Tarfful, and Chewbacca. A Clone Walker passes by a lake. Tarfful is lying dead on Wookiee boat. The clone stares at him for a moment and a furry creature covered in mud all over comes out of the water onto the boat. The clone asks the creature if anything is there. "Wookiee good, eat Wookiee," replies the creature. The clone decides it is just a native Kashyyyk creature and decides to leave. Immediately, Chewbacca jumps out of the water and pulls the clone underwater, killing him. Then Tarfful wakes up and the creature reveals itself to be Yoda. He tells the Wookiees to give him a second to bathe. Yoda jumps into the water and scrubs all the mud off. Yoda emerges and puts on his robes. They then continue towards the emergency escape pod. *A scene in which Yoda speaks to the voice of Qui-Gon Jinn's spirit. Yoda dedicates himself to Qui-Gon's teachings. This scene was featured in the novelization. *Darth Vader kills Wat Tambor. File:EPIII RotS poster.png|Cover File:Ep3DVD.jpg|2005 DVD (2-Discs) File:Star Wars Episode III Revenge of the Sith Blu-ray Steelbook.jpg|The 2015 Blu-ray disc Steelbook (1-Disc) File:Star Wars Episode III Revenge of the Sith 2019 release cover.jpg|The 2019 re-release cover File:Star Wars Episode III Revenge of the Sith 2019 BD cover.jpg|2019 Blu-ray disc (1-Disc) File:Star Wars Episode III Revenge of the Sith 2020 4K cover.jpg|2020 4K UHD disc release (3-discs) File:ROTSteaser.jpg|Teaser poster File:EPIII_RotS_poster.png|Theatrical poster File:ROTSposter-textless.jpg|Poster artwork textless File:ROTS_ClonePoster.jpg|Clone Trooper poster File:ROTS_VaderPoster.jpg|Darth Vader poster File:ROTS_GrievousPoster.jpg|Grievous poster File:ROTS_WinduPoster.jpg|Mace Windu poster File:ROTS_DuelPoster.jpg|Mustafar Duel poster File:ROTS_YodaPoster.jpg|Yoda poster File:ROTS_FathersDayPoster.jpg|Father's Day poster File:ROTS20poster.jpg|20th Anniversary poster File:ROTS20full.jpg|20th Anniversary banner }} *Ask Aak *Akkani *Nee Alavar *Stass Allie *Mas Amedda *Padmé Amidala *Raymus Antilles *Cellheim Anujo *Apailana *Passel Argente *Veedaaz Awmetth *Fema Baab *Bene *Beytolim *Sio Bibble *Jar Jar Binks *Boga *Ulfor Bombaasa *Brookish Boon *Bana Breemu *C-3PO *Tanner Cadaman *CC-1004 "Gree" *CC-1119 "Appo" *CC-1138 "Bacara" *CC-2201 "Bow" *CC-2224 "Cody" *CC-4477 "Thire" *CC-5052 "Bly" *CC-8826 "Neyo" *Chewbacca *Tsui Choi *Olana Chion *Jeremoch Colton *Sweitt Concorkill *Neb Creip *CT-0000/1010 "Fox" *CT-55/11-9009 "Jag" *Braata Danlos *Giddean Danu *Davijaan "Odd Ball" *Opula Deget *Lushros Dofine *Dooku *Tundra Dowmeia *Ivor Drake *Cin Drallig *Eeusu Estornii *Eugroothwa *Lampay Fay *Faya Rodemos *Dannl Faytonni *Kit Fisto *FX-6 *Melik Galerha *Galle *Janu Godalhi *Halland Goth *Grakchawwaa *Grievous *Guanta *Rute Gunnay *Nute Gunray *Rune Haako *San Hill *Hollé *IG-101 *IG-102 *Jek *Greeata Jendowanian *Qui-Gon Jinn *Zett Jukassa *Kagi *Coleman Kcaj *Denaria Kee *Obi-Wan Kenobi *Ki-Adi-Mundi *Agen Kolar *Plo Koon *Lachichuk *Shmi Skywalker Lars *Owen Lars *Beru Lars *Poggle the Lesser *Ma'kis'shaalas *Shu Mai *Malé-Dee *Whie Malreaux *Koyi Mateil *Tion Medon *Merumeru *Corla Metonae *Cat Miin *Sly Moore *Moteé *Mon Mothma *Jobal Naberrie *Pooja Naberrie *Ruwee Naberrie *Ryoo Naberrie *Sola Naberrie *Rugor Nass *Po Nudo *Barriss Offee *Barrow Oicunn *Bail Organa *Breha Organa *Leia Organa *Sheev Palpatine/Darth Sidious *Chi Eekway Papanoida *Notluwiski Papanoida *Darth Plagueis *Shadday Potkin *Tannon Praji *R2-D2 *R4-F5 *R4-G9 *R4-P17 *R4-P44 *Delva Racine *Sheltay Retrac *Horox Ryyder *Gume Saam *Salporin *Rystáll Sant *Osh Scal *Aayla Secura *Cempo Shalk *J'oopi Shé *Silya Shessaun *Gem Sirrom *Sistros Nevet *Anakin Skywalker/Darth Vader *Luke Skywalker *Orn Free Taa *Wat Tambor *Terr Taneel *Tarfful *Wilhuff Tarkin *Teta *Shaak Ti *Saesee Tiin *Tikkes *Meena Tills *Waks Trode *Nank Tun *Gregar Typho *Umé *Luminara Unduli *Unidentified Advanced Recon Force Scout Trooper officer *Unidentified clone lieutenant *Unidentified clone paratrooper *Unidentified Jedi priestess *Unidentified Jedi youngling *Unidentified Separatist official *Unidentified unit commander *Unidentified 2-1B surgical droid *Sateen Vestswe *Quinlan Vos *Mace Windu *Dznori Xam *Selif Xam *Yanjon Zelmar *Yoda *Fang Zar |l-characters= *2-1B/DRX *2638 *7EX *Ask Aak *Nee Alavar *Stass Allie *Mas Amedda *Padmé Amidala *Appo *Raymus Antilles *Veedaaz Awmetth *Cellheim Anujo *Apailana *Koffi Arana *Passel Argente *Fema Baab *Sors Bandeam *Bene *Jar Jar Binks *Boga *Ulfor Bombaasa *Bly *Brookish Boon *Braata *Bana Breemu *C-3PO *Nathaniel Camaran *Tanner Cadaman *CC-1138 (Bacara) *CC-4477 (Thire) *CC-8826 (Neyo) *Chewbacca *Olana Chion *Tsui Choi *Cody *Jeremoch Colton *Sweitt Concorkill *Neb Creip *CT-0000/1010 (Fox) *CT-3423 *CT-57/11-9048 *Giddean Danu *Led Daragon *Davijaan *Opula Deget *Lushros Dofine *Dooku/Darth Tyranus *Tundra Dowmeia *Ivor Drake *Cin Drallig *Fame Drimal *Chi Eekway Papanoida *Jeswi Ele *Ellé *Ejai *Eeusu Estornii *Eugroothwa *Lampay Fay *Faya *Dannl Faytonni *Kit Fisto *FX-6 *Melik Galerha *Janu Godalhi *Grakchawwaa *Ottegru Grey *Grievous *Guanta *Aruteous Gunnay *Nute Gunray *Rune Haako *Hadiss *Són Halliikeenovich *San Hill *Hollé *IG-101 *IG-102 *Zyn Javeb *Gree *Jai'galaar "Jag" *Greeata Jendowanian *Qui-Gon Jinn *Zett Jukassa *Jurokk *Kagi *Coleman Kcaj *Denaria Kee *Obi-Wan Kenobi *Ki-Adi-Mundi *Agen Kolar *Plo Koon *Onara Kuat *Lachichuk *Aito Laff *Beru Lars *Owen Lars *Shmi Skywalker Lars *Shia Letap *Shu Mai *Ma'kis'shaalas *Malé-Dee *Whie Malreaux *Koyi Mateil *Tion Medon *Merumeru *Corla Metonae *Cat Miin *Sly Moore *Moteé *Mon Mothma *Jobal Naberrie *Pooja Naberrie *Ruwee Naberrie *Ryoo Naberrie *Sola Naberrie *Rugor Nass *Gap Nox *Po Nudo *Barriss Offee *Barrow Oicunn *Bail Prestor Organa *Breha Organa *Leia Organa *Palpatine/Darth Sidious *Notluwiski Papanoida *Darth Plagueis *Poggle the Lesser *Shadday Potkin *Tannon Praji *R2-D2 *R4-F5 *R4-G9 *R4-P17 *R4-P44 *R77 *Delva Racine *Sheltay Retrac *Rooh *Horox Ryyder *Salporin *Rystáll Sant *Osh Scal *Aayla Secura *J'oopi Shé *Silya Shessaun *Gem Sirrom *Sistros *Jaing Skirata *Kom'rk Skirata *Anakin Skywalker/Darth Vader *Luke Skywalker *Orn Free Taa *Wat Tambor *Terr Taneel *Tarfful *Wilhuff Tarkin *Teta *Shaak Ti *Saesee Tiin *Tikkes *Meena Tills *Romeo Treblanc *Waks Trode *Nank Tun *Maneeli Tuun *Gregar Typho *Umé *Unidentified clone scout trooper *Unidentified Separatist official *Jikesh Valia *Darth Venamis *Sateen Vestswe *Quinlan Vos *Mace Windu *Dznori Xam *Selif Xam *Yanjon *Yoda *Fang Zar *Zittaasabba |c-organisms= *Arthropod *Bantha *Bird **Felucia bird *Buzzard **Saleucami buzzard *Eopie *Gelagrub *Gualaar *Insect **Beetle **Can-cell **Flea ***Lava flea *Midi-chlorian *Nos monster *Reptavian **Bogwing **Dactillion **Varactyl *Ruhau-whale *Saleucami bat *Spider **Ginntho |l-organisms= *Bantha *Beetle **Ground beetle *Buzzard *Can-cell *Dactillion *Eopie *Felucian bird *Gelagrub *Ginntho *Gualaar *Lava flea *Nos monster *Ruhau-whale *Varactyl |c-droids= *Astromech droid **Q7-series astromech droid **R-series ***R2-series astromech droid ***R4 astromech droid ****R4-P Astromech *Battle droid **B-series battle droid ***B1-series battle droid ****OOM-series battle droid *****OOM command battle droid *****OOM pilot battle droid *****OOM-series security droid ***B2-series super battle droid **Droideka ***Q-series droideka **DSD1 dwarf spider droid **IG-series ***IG-100 MagnaGuard **Octuptarra tri-droid **OG-9 homing spider droid *Cam droid **Senate hovercam droid *Directional droid *Droid tank **LM-432 crab droid **NR-N99 Persuader-class droid enforcer *Droid starfighter **Droid tri-fighter **Vulture-class starfighter *HMP droid gunship *Labor droid **Binary loadlifter ***CLL-series ****CLL-M2 binary loadlifter **IW-37 pincer loader droid **Short-Range Transport droid *Medical droid **2-1B surgical droid **DD-13 medical assistant droid **FX-series medical assistant droid ***FX-9 surgical assistant **GH-7 series medical assistance droid **Midwife droid ***Chroon-Tan B-Machine *Mining droid **DLC-13 mining droid **Electrorefining droid **Ore extraction droid *P-100 pick-up droid *Pilot droid **FA-series ***FA-4 pilot droid ***FA-5 valet droid *Pistoeka sabotage droid *Probe droid **Prowler series ***Prowler 1000 seeker droid *Protocol droid **3PO-series protocol droid *Repair droid **MSE series ***MSE-6 series repair droid *Secretary droid **BD-3000 luxury droid *Security droid |l-droids= *Astromech droid **Q7-series astromech droid **R2-series astromech droid **R4-series agromech droid ***R4-P *Battle droid **B1-Series battle droid **B2 super battle droid **Droid tri-fighter **DSD1 dwarf spider droid **HMP droid gunship **IG-100 MagnaGuard **LM-432 crab droid **NR-N99 Persuader-class droid enforcer **Octuptarra combat tri-droid **Octuptarra magna tri-droid **OG-9 homing spider droid **OOM command battle droid **OOM pilot battle droid **OOM security battle droid **Q-series droideka **Variable Geometry Self-Propelled Battle Droid, Mark I *BD-3000 luxury droid *FA-series **FA-4 pilot droid **FA-5 valet droid *Labor droid **Loader droid ***CLL-M2 ordnance lifter ***HL-444 hover loader ***IW-37 pincer loader droid ***SRT autonomous short-range transport **MSE-4 droid **Mining droid ***Mustafar panning droid *Medical droid **2-1B surgical droid **Chroon-Tan B-Machine **DD-13 medical assistant droid **FX-6 medical assistant droid **GH-7 medical analysis unit *Protocol droid **3PO-series protocol droid *Prowler 1000 exploration droid *Spy droid **Sabotage droid ***Pistoeka sabotage droid *Technical support droid |c-events= *Imperial Era **Empire Day **Duel in the Galactic Senate **Duel on Mustafar **Padmé Amidala's funeral **Proclamation of the New Order *Republic Era **Cantham House meetings **Clone Wars ***Battle of Coruscant ***Battle of Utapau ***Mission to Cato Neimoidia ***Mission to Mustafar ***Outer Rim Sieges ****Battle of Felucia ****Battle of Kashyyyk ****Mygeeto Campaign *****Fourth Battle of Mygeeto ****Siege of Saleucami **Great Jedi Purge ***Infiltration of the Jedi Temple ***Operation: Knightfall ***Duel in Palpatine's office **Mission to rescue Shmi Skywalker Lars **Occupation of Utapau |l-events= *Clone Wars **Battle of Coruscant **Battle of Kashyyyk **Outer Rim Sieges ***Battle of Boz Pity ***Battle of Felucia ***Battle of Mygeeto ***Battle of Utapau ***Siege of Saleucami **Battle of Cato Neimoidia **Hunt for Darth Sidious **Mission to Mustafar **Mission to Utapau **Battle of Cato Neimoidia *Great Jedi Purge **Showdown on Coruscant **Order 66 **Operation: Knightfall **Infiltration of the Jedi Temple **Duel on Mustafar **Duel in the Senate |c-locations= *Colonies **Quellor sector ***Cato Neimoidia system ****Cato Neimoidia *****Tarko-se *Core Worlds **Alderaan sector ***Alderaan system ****Alderaan *****Unidentified region ******Aldera *******Royal Palace of Alderaan ****Alderaan's sun **Corusca sector ***Coruscant subsector ****Coruscant system *****Coruscant ******Imperial City *******Cantham House *******Coruscant shipyard *******Federal District ********Jedi Temple *********Council Towers **********High Council Tower ***********Jedi Council Chamber **********Reassignment Council Tower **********Tower of First Knowledge **********Tower of Reconciliation *********Great Hall *********Jedi Archives *********Jedi Temple central security station *********Jedi Temple communication center *********Processional Way *********Temple Spire *********Temple's war room *********Yoda's quarters ********Senate apartment complex *********Padmé's Apartment ********Senate Office Building *********Chancellor's office ********Senate Plaza *********Avenue of the Core Founders *********Imperial Senate Building **********Galactic Senate Chamber ***********Chancellor's podium **********Chancellery Secretariat ***********Chancellor's working office ************Chancellor's podium *******Grand Republic Medical Facility *******Uscru District ********Galaxies Opera House *****Coruscant Prime *Foundry of the Confederacy *Mid Rim Territories **Boz Pity **Chommell sector ***Naboo system ****Naboo *****Lake Country *****Theed ******Great Hall **Mytaranor sector ***Kashyyyk system ****Kashyyyk *****Wartaki Sea *****Wawaatt Archipelago ******Kachirho *******South Beach *******Tree Kachirho *******Tree Vikkilynn *Outer Rim Territories **Albarrio sector ***Mygeeto system ****Mygeeto *****Unidentified Mygeeto city **Arkanis sector ***Geonosis system ***Tatoo system ****Tatoo I ****Tatoo II ****Tatooine *****Jundland Wastes ******Great Chott salt flat *******Lars Homestead **Atravis sector ***Mustafar system ****Jestefad ****Lefrani ****Mustafar *****Fralideja *****Klegger Corp Mining Facility **Sluis sector ***Dagobah system ****Dagobah *****Dragonsnake Bog **Spice Triangle **Subterrel sector ***Polis Massa system ****Polis Massa *****Polis Massa Base **Suolriep sector ***Saleucami system ****Saleucami **Tarabba sector ***Utapau system ****Utapau *****Pau Sinkhole ******Pau City *******Civic Level *******Level 10 ****Utapau (star) **Thanium sector ***Felucia system ****Felucia |l-locations= *Colonies **Cato Neimoidia *Core Worlds **Alderaan sector ***Alderaan system ****Alderaan *****Triplehorn mountains *****Aldera ******Aldera Royal Palace **Coruscant sector ***Coruscant system ****Coruscant *****Galactic City ******Coruscant shipyard ******Senate District *******Ambassadorial Sector ********500 Republica *********Senate Apartment Complex *******Senate Plaza *******Senate Building ********Grand Convocation Chamber *********Chancellor's Podium ********Chancellery Secretariat *********Galactic Senate Chamber Holding Office **********Chancellor's Podium ******Temple district *******Jedi Temple ********Great Hall ********Processional Way ********Temple's war room ******Uscru Entertainment District *******Galaxies Opera House *Mid Rim **Boz Pity **Mytaranor sector ***Kashyyyk system ****Kashyyyk *****Wawaatt Archipelago ******Kachirho **Chommell sector ***Naboo system ****Naboo *****Theed *Outer Rim Territories **Felucia system ***Felucia **Mustafar system ***Jestefad ***Mustafar ****Fralideja ****Klegger Corp Mining Facility *****Separatist Council Conference Room *****Separatist Council War Room **Mygeeto system ***Mygeeto ****Unidentified Mygeeto city **Saleucami system ***Saleucami **Sluis sector ***Dagobah system ****Dagobah **Arkanis sector ***Tatoo system ****Tatooine *****Lars homestead **Tarabba sector ***Utapau system ****Utapau *****Pau City *Wild Space **Subterrel sector ***Polis Massa system ****Polis Massa *****Polis Massa Research Base ******Polis Massan medical facility |c-organizations= *Adi Gallia's family *Administrator *Baron *Beru Whitesun's family *Chief Petty Officer *Con artist *Confederacy of Independent Systems **Archduke **Commerce Guild ***Presidente **Confederacy military ***Confederacy of Independent Systems Navy ****Coruscant attack fleet ****Kashyyyk invasion fleet ***Separatist Droid Army ****Supreme Martial Commander of the Separatist Droid Armies ****Army infantry corps **Corporate Alliance ***Magistrate **Count **Executive Separatist Council **General **Head of State **InterGalactic Banking Clan ***Chairman ***Muunilinst Banking Clan **Techno Union ***Foreman **Trade Federation ***Neimoidian Royal Guard ***Viceroy ***Viceroy of the Trade Federation *Galactic Empire **Emperor's Royal Guard **Galactic Emperor **Imperial Military ***Imperial Army ****Stormtrooper Corps *****Coruscant Guard ******Imperial Senate Building detachment *******Thire's squad ******Imperial shock trooper *****Stormtrooper ***Imperial Navy ****Imperial Navy's officer corps **Imperial Officer Corps ***Imperial officer **Imperial Senate ***Senator *Four Sages of Dwartii **Philosopher *Galactic Republic **Coruscant Rescue Ops ***Fire Team Three **Galactic Senate ***Delegation of 2,000 ***Junior Representative ***Loyalist ***Loyalist Committee ****Alderaanian delegation ****Mon Calamari faction ****Naboo delegation ***Senate Guard **Office of the Chancellor ***Supreme Chancellor ***Vice Chair **Republic Military ***Grand Army of the Republic ****4th Sector Army *****21st Nova Corps ******Ki-Adi-Mundi's squad ****7th Sky Corps *****212th Attack Battalion ******2nd Airborne Company *****Red unit ****9th Assault Corps *****41st Elite Corps ******41st Scout Battalion *******Red Company *******Unidentified company ****91st Mobile Reconnaissance Corps ****327th Star Corps ****501st Legion ****Clone Intelligence ****Clone trooper *****Advanced Recon Force Scout Trooper *****Biker Advanced Recon Commando *****Clone trooper officer ******Clone Captain ******Clone Commander *******Clone Marshal Commander ******Clone Lieutenant ******Clone Sergeant *****Clone paratrooper *****Clone scout trooper ****Jedi General ****Quinlan Vos's unit ****Ranger Corps ****Third Systems Army ***Galactic Republic Navy ****Open Circle Fleet *****Obi-Wan's fleet ******Clone Flight Squad Seven ****Republic Starfighter Corps *****Clone trooper pilot *****Red Leader ***Wookiee Army ****Kachirho Wookiee Militia ****Wookiee warrior **Republic courts *Governor *Grievous's family *Handmaiden *HoloNet *House of Organa **First Chairman **Queen of Alderaan *House Serenno **Count ***Count of Serenno *Jedi **Jedi Order ***Chief of Security ***Consular Jedi ***Jedi Guardian ***Jedi High Council ***Jedi Initiate ***Jedi Knight ***Jedi Master ****Battlemaster ****Four Masters ****Grand Master ****Master of the Order ****Sage Master ***Padawan *Jedi hunter *Merchant *Mothma family *Naberrie family *Papanoidas *Police officer *Queen *Royal House of Naboo **Governor of Naboo **Monarch of Naboo **Naboo Royal Handmaidens *Royal Naboo Security Forces **Naboo Palace Guard *Sith **Dark Lord of the Sith **Darth **Sith apprentice **Sith Lord **Sith Master **Sith Empire *Tambors *Tarkin family *Utapaun Committee **Chairman of Utapau **Pau'an military ***Pau'an Warrior **Port Administrator *Utapau Skyforce |l-organizations= *Baron *Confederacy of Independent Systems **Commerce Guild **Corporate Alliance **Count of Serenno **InterGalactic Banking Clan ***Muunilinst Banking Clan **Separatist Droid Army ***Supreme Commander of the Droid Armies **Separatist Council **Techno Union ***Foreman **Trade Federation ***Settlement Officer ***Trade Federation Viceroy *Duke *Fire Team Three *Galactic Empire **Galactic Emperor **Imperial Army ***Stormtrooper **Imperial Navy **Imperial Senate *Galactic Republic **Coruscant Rescue Ops **Galactic Senate ***Red Guard ***Senate Guard ***Senator ***Supreme Chancellor **Grand Army of the Republic ***Clone trooper ****41st Elite Corps ****91st Mobile Reconnaissance Corps ****212th Attack Battalion ****501st Legion ****Clone commander ****Clone trooper pilot **Republic Navy *HoloNet *Jedi Order **Jedi Guardian **Jedi High Council **Jedi Initiate **Jedi Knight **Jedi Master ***Battlemaster ***Four Masters ***Grand Master ***Master of the Order ***Sage Master **Padawan *Merumeru's volunteer soldiers *Open Circle Fleet *Order of the Sith Lords **Dark Lord of the Sith *Sith apprentice *Sith Empire *Tion Medon's family |c-species= *Aleena *Anx *Aqualish **Ualaq *Arcona *Bith *Cerean *Chagrian *Dug *Eeusu Estornii's species *Geonosian *Gossam *Gran *Gungan **Ankura **Otolla *Human **Alderaanian **Chandrilan **Clone **Corellian **Cyborg **Naboo **Serennian *Iktotchi *Ishi Tib *Kaleesh *Kallidahin *Kel Dor *Koorivar *Lorrdian *Mirialan *Mon Calamari *Mustafarian **Northern Mustafarian **Southern Mustafarian *Muun *Nautolan *Neimoidian *Nikto **Kadas'sa'Nikto **Kajain'sa'Nikto *Ongree *Pacithhip *Pantoran *Pau'an *Quarren *Rodian *Skakoan *Sullustan *Swokes Swokes *Sy Myrthian *Theelin **Theelin-human hybrid *Tholothian *Togruta *Tusken Raider *Twi'lek *Utai *Umbaran *Unidentified species *Veedaaz Awmetth's species *Vurk *Wookiee *Yoda's species *Zabrak **Iridonian |l-species= *Aleena *Anx *Aqualish *Bith *Cerean *Chagrian *Dug *Geonosian *Gossam *Gran *Gungan *Human *Iktotchi *Ishi Tib *Kaleesh *Kallidahin *Kel Dor *Koorivar *Korun *Lurmen *Mon Calamari *Muun *Mustafarian *Nautolan *Neimoidian *Nikto *Ongree *Pacithhip *Pantoran *Pau'an *Rodian *Quarren *Unidentified Sarrish species *Shi'ido *Skakoan *Sullustan *Swokes Swokes *Sy Myrthian *Theelin *Togruta *Twi'lek *Umbaran *Unidentified species *Utai *Vurk *Weequay *Wookiee *Yoda's species *Zabrak *Zeuol |c-vehicles= *Escape pod **E3-standard starship lifeboat **Wookiee escape pod *F-143 emergency speeder *Medical capsule *Oevvaor Jet Catamaran *Raddaugh Gnasp fluttercraft *TSMEU-6 personal wheel bike **General Grievous' TSMEU-6 Wheel Bike *Repulsorcraft **Armored Assault Tank **Multi-Troop Transport **Speeder ***74-Z speeder bike ***BARC speeder ***Airspeeder ****EasyRide passenger airspeeder **Infantry Support Platform **UT-AT **Util-313 *Skiff **J-type Naboo star skiff **Lava skiff *Space station **Battle station ***Death Star ****DS-1 Death Star Mobile Battle Station *Starship **Capital ship ***Dreadnought ****Providence-class Dreadnought *****Invisible Hand ******31174 ******Hallway 328 *******3224 ******Wizard's Tower ***Star Destroyer ****Venator-class Star Destroyer *****Guarlara *****Unidentified Venator-class Star Destroyer (Death Star) *****Vigilance **Cruiser ***CR70 corvette ****Tantive III **Destroyer ***Light destroyer ****Recusant-class light destroyer **Dropship ***High-Altitude Entry Transport-221 **Freighter ***Light freighter ****YT-series *****YT-1300 light freighter ******Millennium Falcon **Frigate ***Munificent-class star frigate **Gunship ***Low Altitude Assault Transport/infantry **Lucrehulk-class freighter ***Lucrehulk-class Battleship ****Core ship *****Unidentified core ship ****Profusion **Shuttle ***Sheathipede-class transport shuttle ****Unidentified Sheathipede-class transport shuttle ***Theta-class T-2c shuttle **Starfighter ***Aggressive ReConnaissance-170 starfighter ***Alpha-3 Nimbus-class V-wing starfighter ***Belbullab-22 heavy starfighter ****Soulless One ***Delta-7 Aethersprite-class light interceptor ****Plo Koon's Delta-7 Aethersprite-class light interceptor ***Eta-2 Actis-class light interceptor ****Anakin Skywalker's Eta-2 Actis-class light interceptor ****Darth Vader's green Eta-2 Actis-class light interceptor ****Obi-Wan Kenobi's Eta-2 Actis-class light interceptor ****Obi-Wan Kenobi's blue Eta-2 Actis-class light interceptor ***Mankvim-814 interceptor ***N-1 starfighter ***Rogue-class Porax-38 starfighter **Troop transport ***Troop carrier ****Platoon Attack Craft *Tank **HAVw A6 Juggernaut *Walker **All-terrain vehicle ***All Terrain Attack Pod ***All Terrain Open Transport ***All Terrain Reconnaissance Transport ***All Terrain Tactical Enforcer **Self-Propelled Heavy Artillery Turbolaser |l-vehicles= *Repulsorcraft **Airbus ***Jedi shuttlebus **Airspeeder ***DC0052 speeder ***EasyRide passenger airspeeder ***Emergency firespeeder ***Rian-327 airspeeder ***XJ-2 airspeeder **Speeder bike **74-Z speeder bike **BARC speeder *Skiff **J-type star skiff **Lava Skiff *Starship **CR70 corvette ***Sundered Heart **Escape pod ***E3-standard starship lifeboat ***Homemade evacuation pod **Lucrehulk-class battleship **Core ship ***Unlimited Projection **Munificent-class star frigate **Destroyer ***Providence-class carrier/destroyer ****Invisible Hand *****Bay One *****3224 *****31174 *****Hallway 328 *****Wizard's Tower **Recusant-class light destroyer **Shuttle ***Sheathipede-class transport shuttle ***Theta-class T-2c shuttle **Star Destroyer ***Venator-class Star Destroyer ****Guarlara ****Vigilance **Freighter ***Light freighter ****YT-series *****YT-1300 light freighter ******Millennium Falcon **Starfighter ***Aggressive ReConnaissance-170 starfighter ***Alpha-3 Nimbus-class V-wing starfighter **Belbullab-22 starfighter ***Soulless One **Delta-7 Aethersprite-class light interceptor **Eta-2 Actis-class interceptor **Mankvim-814 light interceptor **N-1 starfighter **Porax-38 starfighter *Walker **All Terrain Attack Pod **All Terrain Open Transport **All Terrain Recon Transport **All Terrain Tactical Enforcer **Unstable Terrain Artillery Transport *Armored Assault Tank *Death Star I *HAVw A6 Juggernaut *High-Altitude Entry Transport-221 *Infantry Support Platform *Low Altitude Assault Transport/infantry *Medical capsule *Multi-Troop Transport *Oevvaor jet catamaran *Raddaugh Gnasp fluttercraft *Repulsorpod *Scoop skimmer *Self-Propelled Heavy Artillery *Platoon Attack Craft *Tsmeu-6 personal wheel bike |c-technology= *Antenna **Integrated Comms Antenna *Armor **Clone trooper armor ***Phase II clone trooper armor **Darth Vader's armor *Blast door *Blaster **Blaster cannon ***17kv antipersonnel twin blaster **Blaster pistol ***Kueget LN-21 blaster pistol ***Wookiee pistol **Blaster rifle ***DC-15A blaster rifle ***DC-15A blaster carbine ***DT-57 "Annihilator" blaster ****Grievance Striker ***E-5 blaster rifle ***Mustafarian blaster rifle ***Senate Guard ceremonial blaster rifle **Target blaster *Breath mask **Antiox breath mask *Bowcaster **Chewbacca's bowcaster *Circular saw **Buzz saw *Code cylinder *Comlink **Hush-98 comlink *Comlink booster pack *Communicator monitor *Computer **Targeting computer *Cybernetics *Deflector shield *Disruptor **X1 Carbine *Electro-shock prod *Electrostaff *Engine **Sublight engine ***Ion engine ****Creveld-4 radial ion drive ****IGP-440a ion turbine engine ***J-44 "Jetforce" sublight engine *Force pike **Controller FP *Grappling hook *Headset *Holobook *Holocam *Homing beacon *Hover-stretcher *Hyperspace transport ring **Syliure-31 hyperspace docking ring *Injector **Hypodermic injector *Ion cannon *Jedi beacon *Jetpack *Life support *Lightsaber **Aayla Secura's lightsaber **Agen Kolar's lightsaber **Cin Drallig's lightsaber **Ki-Adi-Mundi's lightsaber **Kit Fisto's lightsaber **Mace Windu's lightsaber **Obi-Wan Kenobi's lightsaber **Saesee Tiin's lightsaber **Shoto lightsaber ***Yoda's lightsaber **Sith lightsaber ***Curved-hilt lightsaber ****Dooku's lightsaber ***Darth Sidious' lightsabers **Stass Allie's lightsaber **Skywalker's lightsaber *Magnet *Mass-driver cannon *Missile **Discord missile *Missile launcher **RPC-2 Rocket Launcher *Moisture vaporator **GX-8 water vaporator *Officer's disk *Pressure suit *Quarrel *Reactor *Rebreather **A99 aquata breather *Repulsorlift *Repulsorpod *Rocket booster *Scomp link *Shield *Slugthrower **Wookiee projectile rifle *Stuncuffs *Superlaser *Turbolaser *Turret |l-technology= *A99 aquata breather *Antiox breath mask *Armor **Clone trooper armor ***Clone scout trooper armor ***Phase II clone trooper armor *Blaster **Blaster pistol **Target blaster ***Kueget LN-21 blaster pistol *Binders *Cybernetics **Darth Vader's armor *Datapad *DC-15A blaster rifle *DC-15S *DC-17 hand blaster *Deflector shield *Discord missile *Electrobinoculars *Electrostaff *Force pike *Grappling hook *Headset comlink *Helmet *Holomap *Holoprojector *Hush-98 comlink *Kinetic-blast rifle *Laser cannon **Nd-53 double laser cannon *Lightsaber **Curved-hilt lightsaber *Mechno-arm *MK II Paladin blaster rifle *Photoreceptor *Polarizing visor *Ray shield *Ray shield generator *Repulsorlift *Skakoan pressure suit *Stun cuffs *Sublight drive *Syliure-31 long-range hyperdrive module *Syliure-45 hyperdrive module *Transparisteel *"Tulip" style Imperial work station *Turbolaser |c-miscellanea= *Asteroid **Planetoid *Atmosphere *Bandolier *Beach *Binary star system *Blanket *Blood *Brawl *Bronzium *Cane **Gimer stick **Staff of Command *Censer *Cerlin *City **Bridge city **Ecumenopolis *Clothing **Cape ***Chunky cape **Cloak ***Serennian cloak ***Umbaran shadow cloak **Mantle **Padmé Amidala's wardrobe ***Funeral gown **Republic military uniforms **Shiraya fan headdress **Traditional overcoat **Viceroy gown *Coarseweave *Crest of Alderaan *Crown *Democracy *Distress signal *Dream *Emergency Code Nine Thirteen *Entry dome *Eriaduan *Eye patch *Flight helmet *The Force **Chosen One **Dark side of the Force **Disturbance in the Force **Force power ***Force choke ***Force Dash ***Force deflection ***Force jump ***Force lightning ***Force vision **Light side of the Force **Netherworld of the Force *Fire *Funeral *Great Plan *Hair *Hand-to-hand combat *Hanna pendant *Heart *High Galactic *Hybrid *Immortality *Japor snippet *Jedi Code *Jungle *Language **Binary **Galactic Basic Standard ***"Wild bantha chase" ***"May the Force be with you" **Geonosian hive-mind **Rodian **Shyriiwook **Writing ***Aurebesh *Lethorn *Lightsaber combat **Form II **Form III **Form VII **Lightsaber duel *Magma *Meditation *Megacorporation *Memory wipe *Militia *Mon Calamari Aquatic Ballet **Squid Lake *Mourning bead *Music *Mustafarian architecture *Naval warfare *Nebula *Neck ring *Oil *Opera *Order 66 *Ossic architecture *Pajamas *Petition of 2,000 *Phrik *Pillow *Plant **Tree ***Gnarltree ***Wroshyr tree *Plasma *Plastoid *Politics *Pourstone *Project Stardust *Purse World *Reproduction *Reptile *Republic crest *Separatist hex icon *Silk **Onderon silk **Shimmersilk ***Tyrian shimmersilk **Shraa silk *Sith artifact **Sith Chalice ***Darth Sidious' Sith Chalice *Sleep *Spaceport *Special session of Congress *Species **Elephantine **Parent **Sentience **Twin *Staging area *Staff **Speaker's staff **Tion Medon's staff *Starfighter combat **Slip-jaws *Surface warfare *Symbol of the Royal House of Naboo *Tattoo **Pantoran tattoos *Tech dome *Throne *Time **19 BBY **Standard minute **Standard year *Trade Federation Script *Tragedy of Darth Plagueis the Wise *Transparisteel *Great Sith Wars Bas-Relief *Uris silk *Vacuum *Water *Zeyd cloth |l-miscellanea= *Blood *Bunk *Eye patch *Fire *The Force **Dark side of the Force ***Force lightning **Force deflection **Telekinesis ***Force Choke **Force ghost *Great Hyperspace War Bas-Relief *Hair *Ivory *Language **Binary **Galactic Basic Standard ***"Wild bantha chase" **Writing ***Aurebesh *Leather **Rancor-leather *Lightsaber combat **Cho mai **Cho mok **Cho sun **Dun Möch **Form I **Form II **Form III **Form IV **Form V **Form VI **Form VII **Mou kei **Jar'Kai **Lightsaber duel **Sai **Sai cha **Shiak **Sun djem *Opera *Plasma *Plastoid *Politics *Shyriiwook *Spirit urn *Squid LakeItalic *Time **19 BBY *Transparisteel *Treason *Water *Wroshyr tree }} *Star Wars in 100 Scenes *Star Wars: The Lightsaber Collection *Star Wars: The Skywalker Saga – The Official Collector's Edition *Star Wars: The Mini Book of Lightsabers *The Art of Star Wars: The High Republic: Volume I *Star Wars: The High Republic: The Lightsaber Collection *The Star Wars Archives: Episodes I–VI, 1977–2005 }} }} 3