214
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Sharp_Spiral
Sharp Spiral
7107

The Sharp Spiral was the cherished personal starfighter of Jedi Master Saesee Tiin during the waning days of the Galactic Republic. Master Tiin received the Sharp Spiral as a gift from a group of Duros diplomats after he rescued their convoy from pirates. Tiin modified his fighter heavily, adding a handmade hyperdrive unit, as well as adding laser cannons taken from a Hutt and a concealed proton torpedo launcher. thumb|left|180px|Sharp Spiral over Coruscant Tiin used his connection to the Force to increase the speed of his hyperdrive and guide him through hyperspace as he flew dangerously close to mass shadows. Such was his command of the Force that he needed no navigation computer to calculate his hyperspatial course. These skills earned for him the deep respect of the Sons and Daughters of Freedom, a vigilante militant crew that often aided the Jedi. In atmospheric flight, Sharp Spiral was one of the fastest starfighters in the Jedi fleet. Its aerodynamic design made it supreme in the atmospheres of most planets. Tiin perfected his piloting skills in the Sharp Spiral on his home planet of Iktotch. The constant gale-force winds would pose a challenge to any pilot&mdash;even a Jedi. After training in this manner for several years, Tiin was ready to face any aerial threat unfortunate enough to get in his way. thumb|left|180px The Sharp Spiral had its finest hour when Tiin found himself facing down three large warships piloted by disenchanted members of the Freedom's Sons. Tiin utilized dizzying flight patterns to disable all the key components on the enemy craft. The helpless craft had been so damaged by this lone starfighter that they were left to float in empty space until they were arrested by Republic authorities. In 19 BBY,The New Essential Chronology places the execution of Order 66 in 19 BBY Tinn had parked the Sharp Spiral in a spaceport on Coruscant on the night prior to his death and the beginning of the Great Jedi Purge. Senator Bail Organa was aware of the ship's location, and after narrowly escaping death while investigating the attack on the Jedi Temple, he ordered his subordinate, Captain Raymus Antilles, to take five men and steal the Sharp Spiral homing beacon. Antilles succeeded in his task, and Organa used the beacon to gather Jedi Masters Obi-Wan Kenobi and Yoda, from their narrow escapes on Utapau and Kashyyyk respectively. *Star Wars: Jedi Starfighter *Star Wars: Revenge of the Sith novelization *The New Essential Guide to Characters *Power of the Jedi Sourcebook *The New Essential Guide to Vehicles and Vessels *Star Wars Fandex Deluxe Edition *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia *Star Wars: The Official Starships & Vehicles Collection 23 Category:Cutlass-9 patrol fighters Category:Jedi starfighters