476
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Wookieepedia
Wookieepedia
150062

|registration=Optional |owner=Fandom, Inc. |creator=*Chad "WhiteBoy" Barbry *Steven "Riffsyphon1024" Greenwood |maintainer=Wookieepedians |launch date=March 4, 2005 |current status=Active |article count=------}}}} }} Wookieepedia: The Star Wars Wiki, or simply Wookieepedia, is a wiki that was launched on March 4, 2005 (as Star Wars Wiki), and strives to be the premier source of information on all aspects of the Star Wars universe. Maintained by volunteer editors, Wookieepedia documents content from the current Star Wars canon and the Star Wars Legends continuities, encompassing films, novels, games, and other media, as well as information of value to fans. Wookieepedia is inspired by Wikipedia, but expands on Star Wars information in greater detail and with more freedom than Wikipedia can. Since then, it has expanded to become one of the largest wikis on the Internet. As a fan-made encyclopedia hosted by , Wookieepedia is not intended to be a primary source, nor is it a replacement for the Encyclopedia, the Databank, or any other official source. Rather, it serves as a fan effort to summarize all aspects of the Star Wars universe in the best way possible, while pointing the reader to the respective official sources. thumb|right|125px|Co-founder Steven Greenwood at Celebration IV Wikipedia (founded on January 15, 2001) is a collaboratively developed free content encyclopedia, covering a wide variety of topics, and has millions of articles. It is a general-knowledge encyclopedia, rather than being specific to one topic (as Wookieepedia is Star Wars&ndash;specific). Because of this, it is not always particularly friendly to in-depth knowledge specific to a given fictional universe.See , and Chad Barbry, under the screenname of "Cbarbry," was a regular contributor to Wikipedia since October 17, 2004.text-top|x16px on Wikipedia So was Steven Greenwood, under the screenname of "Riffsyphon1024," since January 5, 2005.text-top|x16px on Wikipedia Greenwood soon started sorting the various Star Wars articles on the site. As Wikipedia was concerned, only notable items would have complete articles, with the rest of the minor subjects with descriptions on a giant list. Planets, characters, weapons, and vehicles were all done in this manner. Over a short period of time, Greenwood found that he disliked this format and sought another way to gather and place information on the saga and its Expanded Universe.'s recollection of events On January 21, Greenwood posted on a section on a talk page regarding the creation of a new Star Wars Portal, but suggested that instead of a portal it should be a wiki, citing Halo Wiki (now ) as inspiration, as well as TheForce.net's Completely Unofficial Star Wars Encyclopedia. thumb|left|125px|Co-founder Chad Barbry Two days later, Chad Barbry entered the discussion, immediately coining the word "Wookieepedia,"text-top|x16px on Wikipedia while Greenwood proposed "Wicketpedia". Together they began working out ideas. Both agreed that this new project would run alongside Wikipedia as a separate, but equal entity&mdash;something more than simply a WikiProject. However, since Steven was not sure how a new wiki would be created, Barbry contacted of then Wikicities (later Wikia, now Fandom) and requested the creation of the new wiki. thumb|right|The very first Star Wars Wiki logo (5&ndash;22 March 2005) Other Wikipedia contributors seemed to be getting more hostile toward new Star Wars articles, so in February 2005, Barbry decided to make a request of the Wikipedia Board of Trustees to make a "Star Wars Wiki." His intent was more than just another WikiProject, but an official sister project similar to Wikiquotes. He thought the best solution was a separate, but linked project&mdash;a project that was separate enough for the "anti-cruft" Wikipedians, but still one that was officially Wikipedia, so there would be no need for redundant articles between the projects. In early March 2005, after meeting, the board came back with their answer. They did not want to move Wikipedia in the direction proposed by Barbry, but recommended creating a Star Wars Wikia. of Wikia was on the Board of Trustees and contacted Barbry to let him know of the board's decision and to set up the new Star Wars Wiki. on Wookieepedia Part of the process that Angela set up was creating interwiki links so Wikipedia could link to Star Wars Wiki articles and vice versa. The wiki came online on March 4, 2005, although it sat idle for a few days. Barbry, now under the screenname "WhiteBoy," was the first non&ndash;Wikia staff user to officially edit the new wiki on March 10, starting with the moving of articles from Wikipedia to Star Wars Wiki space. Later that day, Greenwood joined the site, using his previous Wikipedia screenname.[ Riffsyphon1024's first edits] WhiteBoy was given bureaucrat rights by Wikia on the same day. A third Wikipedian edited that day as well, and was able to add some key image templates to the wiki, before leaving the project altogether.Special:Contributions/AlexTheMartian AlexTheMartian's edits By the first few months, numbers of editors from both Wikipedia and across the web would dramatically increase. For a brief time, there was some confusion as to how to move articles over from Wikipedia. Barbry devised a template for use on Wikipedia to place on talk pages of articles of interest, alerting users that the article would be redirected or moved entirely. The idea was to move as many existing articles from Wikipedia to the new wiki, under the GFDL, making sure to save those under threat of deletion first, and then "wookify" them to the new wiki's standards. The hope was that, though separate, Wikipedians would begin to put the more obscure articles (essentially anything but the most encyclopedic of articles) in the Star Wars Wiki. Main articles, such as Luke Skywalker, would remain at Wikipedia. Wikipedians in general ultimately saw the Star Wars Wiki as an external site, one not affiliated with Wikipedia enough to actually "transwiki" articles over, like one would with Wikibooks or Wikirecipe. Creating redirects to the Star Wars Wiki was not what the Wikipedians had in mind, and they requested that Barbry and Greenwood immediately cease what they believed was legal transwikification; however, articles could still be copied and pasted under the GFDL copyleft license and then "wookified" to fit the scheme of the Star Wars&ndash;themed wiki, making sure to place an in-universe article in past tense, or remove redundant sentences. In this aspect, it was decided to have all articles, not just those that were more trivial, lesser known, or more detailed, at the wiki. Later articles were copied in this fashion and the originals were left alone on Wikipedia for its users to edit under its rules. Eventually Wookieepedia would develop so many articles that Wikipedia would no longer have any to copy. It should also be noted that Wookieepedia was created independently of the Wikimedia Foundation and of any events occurring on Wikipedia. thumb|left|The second Star Wars Wiki logo (22 March 2005 &ndash; 8 January 2006) In March of 2005, perhaps unaware of the formation of the new wiki, a Wikipedian (considered by some a deletionist who wished to prove a point) began to place several Star Wars articles in the Votes for Deletion system (now Articles for Deletion) in an attempt to get these articles deleted from Wikipedia. The purge was later dubbed the "Great LucasCruft Purge" by Greenwood himself.The term "Great LucasCruft Purge" stemmed from the VfD for Great Jedi Purge and was co-coined by Greenwood and Kappa. It was Greenwood's goal to save as many articles from this individual before the damage was made permanent, and would then impede Star Wars Wiki's ability to grow as it did within the first month. One such article that became a focus of this battle was , which became one of the first stub articles added to the new wiki via the "transwiki" process. The purge garnered the Star Wars Wiki a great deal of public attention, which gave some the erroneous impression that Wookieepedia was created because of the purge. Just days after the official founding, administrative powers were given to Greenwood () by Barbry (). This set up the dual administrator system until the adminships of the users , , and later in the year. Further on, , , and were voted in as administrators in December. was first started in June 2005, with Imperialles as the first user to be recognized by the community for his contributions. Aidje, SparqMan, QuentinGeorge, , MarcK, , and were also awarded WOTM in 2005. The wiki, now going under the moniker of "Wookieepedia," developed a steady rate of contributions by new members from all over, and over time lost its reliance on Wikipedia. Eventually Wookieepedia became the primary name for the wiki and an official renaming took place with the creation of a new logo on January 8, 2006, by Tracy Duncan }}. It remains Wookieepedia's logo, with the user Tyber providing a version in higher resolution in 2014 and the user updating it in a Pride theme in 2023. July brought the first on Wookieepedia. The number of quotes later increased and passed through four subcategories, and was the most edited page on Wookieepedia for a time. In the same month, Wookieepedia's largest ever boost came when an explosion of editors hit the site, sending the wiki's article count over 10,000. Factors to this expansion could be attributed to advertising and the release of Star Wars: Episode III Revenge of the Sith. By the end of the year, Wookieepedia's article count had surpassed 20,000. (See wiki growth table below.) In September 2005, was created as an experiment and added to the Main Page. The , a voting and discussion system designed to improve site-wide policies and practices, was formed onto a single page in October 2005. In the same month, Eric Przybylski of Nav-Computer.com allowed Wookieepedia to use his fan-made sector maps on certain articles. His maps have since been replaced with versions taken directly from official sources. , , and were elected administrators in January. Also in January, Wookieepedia created a Memorial to Star Wars creators. Riffsyphon1024 was made bureaucrat in February, joining WhiteBoy. , Silly Dan, and were elected admins in the first half of the year, while SFH, LtNOWIS, Sentry, , , and became admins in the latter half. was elected bureaucrat in November. , , , , Sikon, , , , , , , and were Wookieepedians of the Month for 2006. thumb|right|250px|Wookieepedia's Main Page in Monobook Lite skin, August 2006 Wookieepedia welcomed its first bot on February 8. Maintained by Sikon, was designed to clean up instances of repeating words, categories, as well as clean the sandbox page. Since then, another bot named , maintained by , has made total edits on Wookieepedia. A new Forum area dubbed the was constructed in March 2006 as part of Wikia's MediaWiki updates, and as a result, the was no longer the primary form of wikiwide discussion. Senate Hall was chosen as a name that would not be considered too cliché or overly used for a Star Wars name. Consensus Track was subsequently moved into the forums, and becoming its own section, used specifically for policy creation and alteration on the wiki. The WookieeProjects named Aliens, Images, the New Sith Wars, and The New Essential Guide to Characters were launched on June 6, October 4, October 28, and November 1, respectively. thumb|right|100px|WookieeCast logo On February 20, 2007, the first was posted. The podcast was parody and commentary by Thefourdotelipsis on subjects relating to Wookieepedia and Star Wars in general. It did not, however, represent the official views of the wiki. The Wookiee-Cast podcasts were released throughout 2007, but the initial run never continued after that. Over the course of the spring leading up the 30th anniversary of Star Wars, Wookieepedia held votes for the and with Darth Vader and SuperShadow winning respectively. In May, at least ten Wookieepedians from across the globe attended Celebration IV to help monitor Wookieepedia's table alongside The Completely Unofficial Star Wars Encyclopedia founder Bob Vitas, advertise the wiki, and host a trivia contest named "Stump the Wookiee." In the months before the convention, admins and users came across a notice by Mary Franklin that a group could obtain a table at CIV for free. Immediately the wiki reacted and set up a page for those interested as well as other details of the event. By February, it was known that Wookieepedia won the table and final preparations were made. thumb|left|200px|A group of Wookieepedians after the Stump the Wookiee contest at Celebration IV Some users and administrators that attended and helped man the table alongside Vitas included Riffsyphon1024, Xwing328, jSarek, LtNOWIS, Ozzel, Graestan, , Azizlight, Adamwankenobi, and Lord Hydronium. As a result of Wookieepedia's appearance and contest at Celebration IV, it was mentioned by the official site for the first time, marking another level of awareness in the Star Wars community. In addition, the event allowed the wiki to express itself to the fans directly. In 2007, Imperialles and jSarek were made bureaucrats while Sikon lost his bureaucratship. Jaymach and Sentry also lost their adminship, but , , , , , , , , , and were elected administrators. In addition, , , , , and were vested rollback privileges by the community. In February, the Inquisitorius was formed to maintain the Featured article system. The first Inquisitors were Atarumaster88, Cull Tremayne, Darth Culator, Havac, Lord Hydronium, StarNeptune, Thefourdotelipsis, Breathesgelatin, Eyrezer, Jaina Solo, , and Xwing328. Later in the year, they were joined by Imperialles, Gonk, Green tentacle, Greyman, Graestan, and . However, some meetings of the established user base included discriminatory behavior. Wookieepedians of the Month for 2007 were Atarumaster88, , , Xwing328, Thefourdotelipsis, Enochf, , Eyrezer, Darth Culator, Greyman, I need a name, Cull Tremayne, AdmirableAckbar, and Green tentacle. Wookieepedia's Reference desk became the new within the forums, where general questions on Star Wars not relating specifically to articles or Wookieepedia could be asked. The wiki's Main Page underwent a major change, which allowed for exploration of the Star Wars universe within films, Expanded Universe, and in-universe categories to be hidden on a subpage with the use of Javascript. In addition, the single search icon in Wookieepedia's sidebar was upgraded in April to include . In May, the Votes for Deletion page was renamed to the more in-universe-sounding . The WookieeProjects Knights of the Old Republic and Tales of the Jedi were launched on April 13 and August 27 respectively. One of the largest project undertaken by the community, the Image Categorization Project (ICP) under WookieeProject Images, was created on October 21. In late February 2008, a Facebook fan page for Wookieepedia was started by Riffsyphon1024. It had over 67,000 fans in April 2014, but is now no longer maintained by Wookieepedians. thumb|right|250px|Wookieepedia's Main Page in Monaco skin, February 2008 Wookieepedia began its on March 4, 2008. A new project of Wookieepedia was the with established authors, artists, actors, and anyone else related to the creation of the Star Wars universe in order to gain more insight for its articles. Some of Wookieepedia's first interviews were given to authors Kevin J. Anderson and Tom Veitch and artist Chris Gossett. This project, however, was short-lived in gaining access to interviewees. WookieeProjects Ewoks, Legacy Era, The Force Unleashed, and Ambition were launched on May 26, June 8, September 30, and November 21, respectively. By August of 2008, the wiki had reached 60,000 articles.As noted per Interview request with Christian Gossett in August 2008, located at Wookieepedia:Interview/Christian Gossett. As with many wikis over time, certain features render other ones redundant or useless. Such was the case during what was described by some Wookieepedians as the "Great List Purge" that occurred in late December 2008 and early January 2009, where many old lists created years before were simply out of date as categories had accumulated a far greater number of articles on each topic. The start of 2009 also saw the addition of an official blog to Wookieepedia, named the . The blog began regular entries in January, with regular features summarizing monthly Featured Article output, Consensus Track results, Wookieepedian of the Month interviews, and Canon Updates. An RSS feed for the blog was added to the Main Page on April 1st, 2009, with the blog receiving an impressive 1,072 hits on that day. WookieeProjects Real World Music, The Clone Wars, Galaxies, and Atlas were launched on April 13, April 14, June 13, and September 2, respectively. thumb|150px|Wookieepedia's Main Page in the Wikia skin, October 2010. July 2010 brought forth a new classification of article, partly inspired by Wikipedia practices. Improvement of minor articles and stubs would lead to the creation of comprehensive articles, those which were complete topics, but too small to be either Good Articles or Featured Articles. In October 2010, Wookieepedia underwent another skin change by Wikia (see right). WookieeProjects Star Wars Encyclopedia, The Old Republic, and Astrography were launched in March, on April 22, and on May 16, respectively. In September 2011, an overhaul at StarWars.com resulted in a new Encyclopedia with every entry linking to a Wookieepedia article. By November, the Senate Hall was altered to include listings for sticky threads, which would stick to the top of a separate list. WookieeProjects The New Jedi Order, Newsnet, and Video Games were launched on April 14, in June, and in July, respectively. Wookieepedia's First Barn Burner started in May, beginning with a focus on the site's titular subject: Wookiees. A second Barn Burner, held in August, focused on weapons, while Wookieepedia's First Shed Scorcher: Dilonexa, began on October 22. The third Barn Burner, launched in December, focused on subjects relating to the film Star Wars: Episode I The Phantom Menace. Wookieepedia attended a table at Celebration VI in Orlando, Florida and was interviewed by The Dork Night Podcast. In February, the wiki surpassed 90,000 articles. WookieeProjects Warfare and Novels were launched on April 6 and August 22, respectively. The fourth Barn Burner, focused on droids, began in May, while the fifth Barn Burner began in November focusing on politics. On January 10, Wookieepedia surpassed 100,000 articles, with the creation of the article Jela Reneke. The sixth Barn Burner, held in May, focused on Hutts. thumb|right|250px|Wookieepedia's logo was updated in higher resolution in 2014, provided by the user Tyber. With January came the seventh Barn Burner, with a focus on creatures of the Star Wars universe. WookieeProject Rebels was launched on February 5. With Lucasfilm's announcement on April 25, 2014 to replace the Expanded Universe with the "Legends" brand, members of Wookieepedia subsequently discussed and voted to retain all information within Star Wars media,Forum:CT:Legends and Canon coverage but split applicable articles into their respective canonical parts&mdash;Canon and Legends&mdash;with the use of tabs.Forum:CT:Tab system Editors on the site began creating new articles reflecting information only relevant to the new system of canon and by October 21 had created over 1000 in-universe canon articles. In April, became the first user to be voted Wookieepedian of the Month for a second time. On March 4, 2015, Wookieepedia celebrated the start of its 10th year. Several individuals with ties to Star Wars media, including Leland Chee and Jason Fry, congratulated the site on its birthday. Wookieepedia was present at Celebration Anaheim (April 16&ndash;April 19), where the wiki shared table space with Wikia and hosted a birthday party with a Wookieepedia cake. Afterward, Wikia hosted the Qwizards panel, which allowed fans to compete against long-time Wookieepedians jSarek, Cavalier One, and Jorrel Fraajic. Wikia introduced the Discussions forum feature to Wookieepedia in November, with its first thread being posted on November 12. On the heels of the 2014 decision to institute a tabbed system for canon and Legends content, Wookieepedia editors decided in December 2015 to begin presenting canon content on primary pages, such that visitors arriving at pages such as "Luke Skywalker" would find content relevant to the new canon continuity rather than Legends material. The new system was instituted shortly before the premiere of the film Star Wars: Episode VII The Force Awakens, assuring that those arriving in search of details of classic elements appearing in the new films would easily find the relevant information.Wookieepedia Consensus Track - Canon/Legends Default SwitchMofference - December 7, 2015 thumb|right|250px|Wookieepedia's [[Darth Caedus article in Oasis skin, March 2017]] WookieeProject Battlefront was set up on July 30, 2018. WookieeProjects Resistance and Galaxy's Edge were launched on April 9 and September 9, respectively. and were granted rollback in March, while and were granted the tool in November and December, respectively. resigned from his adminship in May, while resigned from all his positions in October. and Zed42 were then elected administrators in the latter half of the year. In April, Wookieepedia's Discord server was opened up to limited access for Wookieepedians, facilitating communications and furthering collaboration. The server was made official in June. Wookieepedia's first Star Wars Character of the Year tournament was held, replacing the annual Mister/Miss Star Wars votes. Wookieepedia's first and votes were also held, with Dave Filoni and Clone Force 99 "The Bad Batch" as winners for the respective competitions. WookieeProjects Mandalore and The Mandalorian were launched on January 29 and February 3, respectively. thumb|right|150px|Under contruction notice used for Project Stardust's articles Project Stardust was launched by Master Fredcerique as a collaborative effort to improve articles on essential topics. It was a successful launch, with significant expansions to the Ahsoka Tano and Mustafar articles between May and August. The backup link project, organized by , , and among others, provided tens of thousands of archival links throughout the wiki, ensuring that information found online would not be lost. Pages listed in the relevant maintenance category dropped from over 22,000 to a grand total of zero in the course of just over seven months. On September 2, Wookieepedia surpassed 160,000 articles. The character Boba Fett was crowned the Star Wars Character of the Year for 2020, with runners-up being Din Djarin, Yarael Poof, Frog Lady, and Ahsoka Tano. was chosen as the new year's first Wookieepedian of the Month for his outstanding contributions to both the community and the wiki. On January 19, the Padawan editing tutorial was completed by Master Fredcerique, allowing new editors to learn the basics of the editing. The Glossary of Wookieepedian terms saw a major update by Xd1358 on January 31. thumb|left|250px|Fan-made Wookieepedia logo by Matt Doyle (used with permission) was voted in as February's Wookieepedian of the Month for his status article work, becoming a two-time winner for the award. On February 5, was awarded the editor of the year in Fandom's Movies/TV wiki category in 2020, as well being recognized for having made the most edits in the same category. resigned his bureaucratship on February 17. On February 24, was granted rollback rights by the community. The final Mofference was held on February 27, and was elected bureaucrat on March 4, coinciding with Wookieepedia's sixteenth anniversary. won the Wookieepedian of the Month award in March for his clean-up and anti-vandalism work, as well as article expansions and contributions to Discord discussions. was awarded Wookieepedian of the Month for April for her friendly attitude and involvement in community discussions, as well as exemplary work on oft-neglected topics. In the aftermath of March's Consensus Track vote that was nullified by a Fandom decision, bureaucrats Darth Culator and Toprawa and Ralltiir were banned for propagating a toxic culture on the site over many years with the involvement of other editors, and Wookieepedia's Facebook account was discontinued. Later in April, the Knowledge Bank feature on the wiki was retired and replaced by a on Discussions. In the same month, launched his own bot, , and was awarded May's Wookieepedian of the Month for quality status article nominations and contributions to discussions. In addition, Master Fredcerique and Xd1358 were elected bureaucrats on May 4, and on May 22, Shayanomer was admitted to the AgriCorps reviewing panel. The Mofference was also retired in favor of the on-site Consensus Track, while the organized real-time spirit of the Mofference was continued through the WookieeNights event, unofficially launched by in May and ratified in July. Plume Tray was awarded Wookieepedian of the Month for June for his botwork with PLUMEBOT and contributions to numerous templates using his technical expertise. The Knight editing tutorial was published on June 3, and and were made Discussions moderators on June 9. On June 12, was re-admitted to the EduCorps reviewing panel, and on June 26, OOM 224 was admitted to the AgriCorps reviewing panel. The community vested CheckUser rights to on June 23, and days later, Wookieepedia's Immi Thrax took part in a Fandom Twitch panel themed around Pride that was released on June 28. thumb|right|250px|Fan-made Wookieepedia logo by Star Wars 5W (used with permission) On July 1, was elected Wookieepedian of the Month for his contributions to bridging the divide between Discussions and the wiki. That same day, Fandom named Immi Thrax their editor of the month for June in the TV/Movies category of wikis for her contributions to Wookieepedia's LGBTQIA+ coverage. Wookieepedia's Twitter account was verified on July 7, and on July 8, launched , a bot designed to handle part of the Comprehensive article, Good article, and Featured article nomination archival process for review panel members. Newcomer won Wookieepedian of the Month for August for greatly improving coverage on the Star Wars: The Ascendancy Trilogy novels and other Chiss-related material. The first official WookieeNight was held on August 8. JediMasterMacaroni was admitted to the EduCorps review panel on August 14, while Shayanomer joined the ranks of the Inquisitorius review panel on August 21. received September's Wookieepedian of the Month award, while received the award for October. On October 9, Tommy-Macaroni resigned from all his positions on the website aside from his Rollback rights. On October 23, OOM 224 joined the Inquisitorius. The Wookieepedian of the Month for November was . JediMasterMacaroni joined the ranks of the AgriCorps review panel on November 6. won his second Wookieepedian of the Month award on December. In 2021, Supreme Emperor and Cade Calrayn joined Wookieepedia's Social Media Team. Wookieepedia's Instagram account surpassed 100,000 followers in February, and while the site's Facebook account was discontinued in April, the Wookieepedia Twitter account was officially verified in July. Between June and December, the Twitter account's follower count rose from 32,000 to 57,000, and it garnered a record 3.71 million views in October. In November, there were 14.4 million views of Wookieepedia's tweets, including 47,500 individual interactions of the posts and 4500 clicks on the featured links. On January 17, Project Stardust launched a new effort for articles relating to the Star Wars: The High Republic publishing initiative. On February 28, Wookieepedia surpassed 165,000 articles, and in early September, the wiki surpassed 170,000 articles. On March 4, the sixteenth anniversary of the site, Tommy-Macaroni's bot, , made the 10,000,000th edit while renaming the template to per the last Mofference. Following public outcry, Fandom ruled that all deadnames be removed from Wookieepedia with the exception of redirects in April, and the image debate for the breast/Legends article was settled in May. WookieeProjects Fantasy Flight Games and Star Wars: Card Trader were launched on April 2 and April 22, respectively. thumb|left|250px|Fan-made Wookieepedia logo by Liam Brazier (used with permission) In June, Project Stardust and WookieeProject Pride&mdash;the latter having been launched by Immi Thrax in April&mdash;partnered to work on the Chelli Lona Aphra article. The FandomDesktop skin was also added to Wookieepedia in June, changing the site's appearance&mdash;including the default background, font, and layout&mdash;as well as introducing dark mode. In August, Project Stardust turned its focus to improving the canon Qui-Gon Jinn article. That same month, Fandom's branding was relaunched with a new logo and color palette. On August 26, Supreme Emperor launched the to produce audio versions of status articles. On August 31, Supreme Emperor hosted the first ever Wookieepedia video interview with Sean Kiner, Deana Kiner, and surprise guest Kevin Kiner. The video was uploaded to the Wookieepedia YouTube channel the following day, . On September 5, Project Stardust shifted its focus to the Battle of Hoth article. On November 3, the project turned to the Kamino article, and on December 2, the project moved on to the Boba Fett article. On December 5, WookieeProject Creators was founded by Jade Moonstroller, with a focus on real-world people who have contributed to Star Wars. In total, 25 Featured articles were passed in 2021, in addition to 281 Good articles and 916 Comprehensive articles. thumb|right|250px|Fan-made Wookieepedia logo by Punch It Chewie Press (used with permission) The character Chewbacca was crowned the Star Wars Character of the Year for 2021, with runners-up being Fennec Shand, Yarael Poof, Chelli Lona Aphra, Mitth'raw'nuruodo, and Geode. was voted Wookieepedian of the Month for January 2022, and Discussions moderator was voted February's Wookieepedian of the Month. On the review panels, Commander Code-8 was admitted to the AgriCorps on January 15, joined the EduCorps on February 13, and JediMasterMacaroni was voted into the Inquisitorius on February 26. was voted March's Wookieepedian of the Month. Launching the month of April, was awarded the honor of being Wookieepedian of the Month. LucaRoR was admitted to the EduCorps on April 17, and Commander Code-8 joined the Inquisitorius on April 30. For May, became the Wookieepedian of the Month, and the new review board recruitment process was implemented. was chosen as Wookieepedian of the Month for June 2022, his second time winning the award. won the award for July. That month also saw join the ranks of the EduCorps. In August, was given the Wookieepedian of the Month award. On August 12, was nominated for rollback rights; on August 25, the nomination succeeded. became Wookieepedian of the Month for the month of September, and Immi Thrax was elected administrator on October 17. For October, was awarded Wookieepedian of the Month. On November 4, bureaucrat Xd1358 was banned across the Fandom platform by Fandom for violations of their Terms of Use. In November, was awarded Wookieepedian of the Month and Spookywilloww rejoined the EduCorps and in December became Wookieepedian of the Month and Braha'tok enthusiast joined the AgriCorps. In January, Project Stardust began working on the Fennec Shand article in conjunction with the Boba Fett article. On January 25, YakovChaimTzvi founded WookieeProject Chiss, focusing on article subjects related to the Chiss species. founded WookieeProject Durge's Lance, focusing on subjects related to the Confederacy of Independent Systems, on February 4. NanoLuuke founded WookieeProject Web to coordinate Wookieepedia's use of web content on March 9. WookieeProject LEGO was founded by DFaceG on April 12 to coordinate Wookieepedia's coverage of LEGO Star Wars content. In May, Project Stardust began working on Obi-Wan Kenobi's article, and eventually began collaborating to improve Cassian Jeron Andor's article by September. On October 30, Dropbearemma founded WookieeProject Women to coordinate efforts on articles relating to women both in- and out-of-universe. The 175,000th article to be created, Kybuck (disambiguation), saw the light of day on April 27. thumb|left|240px|Fan-made Wookieepedia logo by Cana(Dan) the Conqueror (used with permission) The character Yaddle was crowned the Star Wars Character of the Year for 2022, with Mitth'ali'astov "Thalias" winning in the imageless category and Tony Gilroy winning 2022's Star Wars Creator of the Year competition. The new year's Wookieepedian of the Month was . On the review panels, LucaRoR and Spookywilloww were voted into the AgriCorps on January 18th and 22nd respectively. Spookywilloww was granted administrator rights on the 25th, and Imperators II was elected bureaucrat the following day. On the 31st, UberSoldat93 resigned from his review panel positions. The following month, LucaRoR was inducted into the Inquisitorius on February 21st, and Samonic joined the EduCorps on the 23rd. February's Wookieepedian of the Month was , and took the title for the following month. In March, Spookywilloww joined the Inquisitorius on the 5th, and Braha'tok enthusiast and Ayrehead02 also were promoted to the panel on the 25th. On March 12, the Wookieepedia administration issued a public apology for the site's failings and problematic attitudes toward past and present members of the community. April's Wookieepedian of the Month was given to JocastaBot&mdash;and by extension her operator Cade Calrayn&mdash;for her spectacular work automating the review board processes. Immi Thrax resigned from administrator on April 4th. On the review panels, Samonic joined the AgriCorps on April 6th, and Fan26 rejoined the EduCorps on the 8th. Two days afterward, LucaRoR and AnilSerifoglu were granted rollback rights. Later in the month, NBDani joined the EduCorps on the 20th. On April 25th, JediMasterMacaroni was elected as administrator. Two more rollbacks&mdash;Wok142 and Fan26&mdash;were elected into the team on the 24th and 26th respectively. For May, newcomer was voted Wookieepedian of the Month. Samonic was removed from the AgriCorps and EduCorps review panels following his ban on May 10th. On May 18th, Fan26 was promoted to the AgriCorps review panel, and Lewisr joined the EduCorps the same day. On May 23rd, AnilSerifoglu and Cade Calrayn rejoined the admin team, and LucaRoR was also promoted to the position. Spookywilloww was awarded Wookieepedian of the Month for June, joining the two-timers group. On June 9, Braha'tok enthusiast was granted rollback rights. was awarded Wookieepedian of the Month for July. was elected Wookieepedian of the Month for August. On August 6, Braha'tok enthusiast and NBDani were promoted to administrators. AnilSerifoglu rejoined the AgriCorps on August 9 and the Inquisitorius on September 13, and he received his second Wookieepedian of the Month award for October. September's award went to , while October's went to AnilSerifoglu, marking his second time receiving the award. November's Wookieepedian of the Month went to , while December's went to . On December 15th, Panther joined the EduCorps, while OOM rejoined the AgriCorps and Inquisitorius on December 21st. In early January, Wookieepedia reached 180,000 articles with the creation of the page Lin Cheah. In late April, Project Stardust began work on Cal Kestis' article. thumb|right|250px|Fan-made Wookieepedia logo by Star Wars 5W (used with permission) To start the year, January's Wookieepedian of the Month award went to , Wookieepedia's Wiki Representative. The same month, Fan26 joined the Inquisitorius on the 21st. February's Wookieepedian of the Month was , and March's was . Panther436 joined the AgriCorps on February 12. joined the EduCorps on March 14. received the title of Wookieepedian of the Month for April. The same month, Wok142 joined the the EduCorps on the 20th, Tommy-Macaroni rejoined the Inquisitorius on the 11th, and ThrawnChiss7 joined the AgriCorps on the 23rd. became an administrator on May 18, and ThrawnChiss7 joined the Inquisitorius on May 30. May's Wookieepedian of the Month was , while June's was , for the second time. On June 6th, Zed42 rejoined the AgriCorps. The Wookieepedian of the Month was for July, who then also joined the EduCorps on the 23rd of the same month. Supreme Emperor resigned from the Social Media Team on July 2, 2024, and three days later, the administration as well. The Wookieepedians of the Month for August and September were and . Sanathestarr joined the EduCorps on August 1st. CometSmudge was elected as a rollback on October 7, and October's Wookieepedian of the Month was . November and December's Wookieepedians of the Month were and , respectively. Wok142 was elected to the AgriCorps on October 7, and Tommy-Macaroni rejoined the AgriCorps on October 28, having also rejoined the admin team on October 10th, earlier that month. CometSmudge was elected into the AgriCorps on November 13, Wok142 was inducted into the Inquisitorius on November 26. Spookywilloww was promoted to bureaucrat on December 2. On April 2, 2024, Wookieepedia reached 190,000 articles with the creation of Ambush on Bursant. Though some further progress was made, the site voted to visually hide the index namespace and disambiguation pages from Wookieepedia's pagecount, resulting in remaining around 190,000 pages in October 2024, down several thousand. thumb|right|190px|Wookieepedia's 20th anniversary logo 2025's Wookieepedians of the Month included: , , , , , , , , , , , and . CometSmudge was inducted into the Inquisitorius on March 4, 2025. Darth Soda was voted in as a rollback on March 10, and was also elected into the role on June 10. Lewisr was elected into the Social Media Team on April 29, and later as an admin on May 30. AnilSerifoglu and Ajjviolin96 were removed from their positions of administrator/review board member and Discussions moderator, respectively, on January 20 and April 28 due to inactivity, while Zed42 was removed from rollback on July 10. Meanwhile, Braha'tok enthusiast and JediMasterMacaroni resigned from the administration on January 3 and April 13, with the latter retaining his review board roles. was elected as a Discussions Moderator on June 17. On December 14th, Tommy-Macaroni resigned from the administration, though retained his rollback rights.Special:Log thumb|left|250px|Fan-made Wookieepedia logo by Tamar J. Canady (used with permission) Over the course of the wiki's history, several attempts were made to curb fanon on user pages or delete it altogether. Most votes resulted in no consensus and the issue was pushed back until a few months later when it became known again. A major influence became the creation of the Star Wars Fanon Wiki, which was accepting of all forms of fanon written by its users. Most users on that wiki happened to be Wookieepedians as well, but would generally consist of members adding fanon to Wookieepedia. This shift of population was seen as general amounts of fanon reduced, but there still existed users that continued to add fanon content to Wookieepedia in contradiction with policy. This however did not limit the number of true contributors to Wookieepedia. From 2005 to 2019, an annual contest for and had been held in December, with voting up to the new year. The winners, either male or female Star Wars characters, retain their crowns until the next vote and can continue to win as long as they receive enough support. The contests were then made into one, with Boba Fett becoming champion of Wookieepedia's Star Wars Character of the Year 2020 contest. From 2005 to 2008, several Wookieepedians contributed to Star Wars canon via the What's The Story? feature of StarWars.com, including John Hazlett, Tim Veekhoven, Aidan Hennessy, Nathan O'Keefe, Gregory Walker, Kyle Jewhurst, Timothy S. Maddocks, and Arthur Papadam. thumb|right|300px|Wookieepedia's growth from March 2005 to December 2025 There are ------}}}} articles on Wookieepedia, and of these, -3}}}} are considered Featured articles (-3}} div round 5}} * 100}}% of the total), -3}}}} Good articles (-3}} div round 5}} * 100}}%), and -4}}}} Comprehensive articles (-4}} div round 5}} * 100}}%). All status articles combined make up - 1 ) + ( - 1 ) + ( - 1 ) ) / ( - - - - - - ) 100 round 1 }}}}% of the total number of articles. There are active users, that is, users who have performed any action in the last 30 days., adjusted for Forum:CT:Disambiguation, The Sequel As of September 2021, according to Alexa Internet, Fandom's three-month global Alexa traffic rank was 80. In April 2014, 1.84% of all Fandom visitors accessed the Wookieepedia subdomain. It is the tenth largest Fandom-hosted wiki in terms of article count as of January 2026.Big wikis at Fandom Wookieepedia has grown quickly from its start in March 2005 to present to reach ------}}}} articles. One relatively large spike in contributions occurred in August 2005, after the release of Star Wars: Episode III Revenge of the Sith. Wookieepedia crossed the 50,000 article threshold on June 26, 2007,50,000 Pool the 75,000 article threshold on April 1, 201075,000 Pool the 100,000 article threshold on January 10, 2013,100,000 Pool and the 150,000 article threshold on July 6, 2019. 200,000 articles were reached on February 15, 2025.200,000 Pool *First article: Brianna, March 9, 2005 *Longest article: Anakin SkywalkerLong Pages *Most edited article: Anakin Skywalker/LegendsPages with the most revisions *50,000th article: Solitaire, June 26, 2007 *100,000th article: Jela Reneke, January 10, 2013 *150,000th article: Star Wars: The Original Trilogy — The Movie Adaptations, July 6, 2019 *200,000th article: Ahmed Bader Abdulla Abdooh Al Hashimi, February 15, 2025 Since 2006, Wookieepedia has been host to many collaborative projects which have improved related groups of articles, either by subject or by source, to Featured article, Good article, and Comprehensive article status. Barn Burners (2011&ndash;2014) and Project Stardust (2020&ndash;) were set up in the Senate Hall as wiki-wide improvement drives that periodically shift their focus on a variety of topics. thumb|right|200px|A comparison chart of Wikia projects (Wookieepedia in red) *Wookieepedia was mentioned in Time magazine on May 29, 2005 as one of Wikia's largest wikis; only Star Trek Memory Alpha was larger, though by November 12, 2005, Wookieepedia had exceeded Memory Alpha in legitimate number of articles. However shortly thereafter, Wookieepedia was overtaken by World of Warcraft's WoWwiki. *On September 26, 2005, Jimmy Wales, the founder of Wikipedia, mentioned Wookieepedia in an interview on C-SPAN. *Abel G. Peña mentioned Wookieepedia in his October 11, 2005 blog, calling it a "staggering enterprise." *Nathan Butler mentioned and gave his support to the wiki in an episode of his internet radio show. * selected Wookieepedia as its Sci Fi Site of the Week on November 28, 2005. *TheForce.net acknowledged Wookieepedia for the first time on December 2, 2005, comparing it with The Completely Unofficial Star Wars Encyclopedia. *On March 27, 2006, Wookieepedia was mentioned in the official Wikia press release covering the relaunch of Wikicities under the new name Wikia. *Daniel Wallace puts Wookieepedia links in his blog. He also admitted being a "giant fan of Wookieepedia." *John Jackson Miller mentioned Wookieepedia in behind-the-scenes comments for Knights of the Old Republic 6 as the source of the conjectural name "Padawan Massacre of Taris," which was later canonized in issue 11 of that same series. Also, he dedicated a blog post called "On Wikis and Wookiees" to it. *On September 4, 2006, Wookieepedia was mentioned in the New York Times. *In Matt and Ben Loewen's audio commentary for Star Wars: Episode IV A New Hope, done as an episode of their fan audio show Star Wars FM, they cite Wookieepedia as where they looked for information on the retconned appearance of the 501st in the film. In reference to the site's name, Matt quips, "I love that name!" *Pablo Hidalgo mentioned Wookieepedia in one of his blog entries. He stated "&hellip;there's a variety of reasons I can't go into that playground as someone on the official side of things. I try to avoid it, though from what I've seen it's pretty darn impressive." *In an interview with comedian C.C. Banana regarding the 30th anniversary of Star Wars, Peter Mayhew was asked if he contributed to the site, and replied that while he hadn't, "I do click onto it every now and again." *In an NBC blog, Aaron Bleyaert wrote about Wookieepedia's quick response to changing Motti's name to the disputed but canon name Conan Antonio Motti. In the blog, released a day after George Lucas's statement, he praised Wookieepedia for their quickness in incorporating it into the Star Wars mythology. *On May 4, 2007, Variety.com wrote an article on Wookieepedia. The article was later included on Hyperspace and the starwars.com Homing Beacon #187&mdash;making this the first time the official site has recognized the existence of Wookieepedia. thumb|300px|Wookieepedia and CUSWE's banner at [[Celebration IV]] *On May 8, 2007, JoBlo.com posted a small article on Wookieepedia. As of its posting, the wiki had 47,916 articles. *On May 18, 2007, StarWars.com again mentioned Wookieepedia in the Behind-the-Scenes Stage Programming" section of its article "Insider's Guide to Celebration IV: Part III." Wookieepedia was later mentioned in the printed form of the guide available at the event. *Wookieepedia was allotted time on the "Behind the Scenes" stage during Celebration IV for a trivia game set up by members of the Wookieepedia community. *In the June 2007 issue of Reason magazine, an article about Jimmy Wales discussed the Star Wars wikia community as one of the largest wikis. *On the June 19, 2007 episode of his radio show, Howard Stern&mdash;an influential radio shock jock&mdash;mentioned Wookieepedia, and proceeded to read from the Wookieepedia entry on Darth Nihilus. *In Issue #121 of ToyFare magazine, the "Twisted Toyfare Theater" section is devoted exclusively to The Star Wars Holiday Special, with Lumpy questioning Chewbacca about Life Day, and Chewbacca responding that he should look it up on Wookieepedia. *TimesOnline mentioned Wookieepedia as being one of the best Wikipedia spinoffs and referred to its "regularly amusing Quotes of the Day." *RiffTrax's Kevin Murphy worked a Wookieepedia reference into their commentary for The Star Wars Holiday Special. *Wookieepedia was mentioned in StarWars.com's February 12, 2008 Photo Caption. *After the third anniversary of Wookieepedia, on March 5, 2008, Galactic Watercooler blogged about the site, claiming it possessed the "best wiki name ever."| *The Official Star Wars Blog mentioned Wookieepedia's April 1, 2008 joke. *Wookieepedia was mentioned in Daniel Wallace's article "The Essential Expanded Universe" in Star Wars Insider 101.Star Wars Insider 101 *Dave Filoni mentioned on the Official Star Wars Blog, among other topics, that George Lucas was shown printed Wookieepedia articles when discussing material he was unaware of. *On October 3, 2008, Associated Content.com (now Yahoo! Voices) posted an article on Wookieepedia, stating that it contained "so much minutiae that if Wookieepedia were an actual Star Wars convention the geek quotient would suffocate the average person." *Pablo Hidalgo mentioned Wookieepedia in the article about Star Wars: The Clone Wars: Lightsaber Duels game published on StarWars.com. When mentioning "speculative" matches from the game that may or may not fit into continuity, he gave an example of Obi-Wan Kenobi dueling Dooku while Anakin was attacking the Malevolence and commented, "Good luck working that one out, Wookieepedians." *A number of images (from various media) on Wookieepedia were included in The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia. Some entries on subjects that received passing mentions in their original source were copied almost directly from Wookieepedia's articles on the subject. Samples include Jumerian and Kallil-virus. Assumptions that existed in these articles, present because they were created as early as 2006, thus became canonical. *The 106th issue of Star Wars Insider, published in January 2009, included an article about the development of The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia in its Blaster department. It acknowledged that such an encyclopedia was forced to compete with Wookieepedia, just as general encyclopedias must compete with Wikipedia. A sidebar in the same article, entitled "Sizing Up Star Wars," featured Stephen J. Sansweet stating, "From what I've seen, Wookieepedia is a superbly-run resource and the community does a wonderful job of policing and self-editing. And that's partly because of the kind of people that make up Star Wars fandom."Star Wars Insider 106 *In a interview with Craig Titley, the script writer for Star Wars: The Clone Wars episode "Blue Shadow Virus," Wookieepedia was mentioned as one of the sites Titley was thrilled to see his name on in connection with Star Wars (the other being the Official Site). *On March 6, 2009, senior environment artist Alex Thomas mentioned in the BioWare Blog post on the Star Wars: The Old Republic website that Wookieepedia used an early screenshot for Nal Hutta in the game as the article's only depiction of the planet surface so far, given its previously unexplored status. *On April 2, 2009, The A.V. Club's Scott Tobias used the Wookieepedia for research on tauntauns in an article about a ThinkGeek April Fool's joke. *Author Maya Kaathryn Bohnhoff described Wookieepedia as a great place to begin researching things while writing her novel Shadow Games, before redirecting her research to a proper guide or expert. She has additionally mentioned Wookieepedia in several blog entries. *The acknowledgments of The Essential Atlas included several names of Wookieepedians that helped out the authors and praised the contributors to the site as a whole.The Essential Atlas *On October 8, 2009, Game Informer published an interview with the keeper of Lucasfilm's Holocron continuity database, Leland Chee, in which Chee mentioned Wookieepedia as a resource occasionally used by game developers. *On January 2010, Southeastern Louisiana University physicist Rhett Allain used information from Wookieepedia (R2-D2's height) to argue that R2 would weigh less than styrofoam in reality (100 grams). The article's numbers are now outdated with the release of Star Wars: Head-to-Head Tag Teams, which states R2's mass to be 32 kilograms. *Author Paul S. Kemp has admitted to reading Wookieepedia, albeit with some caution, while writing his 2010 novel Crosscurrent. thumb|200px|right|The lower columns display text taken directly from the [[Dreadnaught cruiser Wookieepedia article.]] *The Clone Wars second-season episode "Cat and Mouse," which broadcast on March 26, 2010, used parts of a Wookieepedia article, transliterated into Aurebesh, as computer text. *In an article published on May 22, 2010, writer Robert Chestney cited Wookieepedia as one of the resources he used to research his comic series, Star Wars: The Old Republic, Threat of Peace. *Wookieepedia appeared as an answer in a July 16, 2010 The New York Times crossword puzzle by Mel Rosen, under the clue "54A: Online reference for all things Star Wars". *In October 2010, author Sean Williams stated in an interview conducted by that he uses Wookieepedia as a resource for finding obscure alien species with which to populate his Star Wars stories. *On an episode of the Australian game show Good News Week, aired April 11, 2011, English comedian Simon Pegg correctly answered "Wookieepedia" when asked "What is the name of the comprehensive Star Wars database that can be edited by members of the public?" *On June 6, 2011, Wookieepedia was mentioned in an article entitled "The weirdest stories from the Star Wars Expanded Universe," on Gawker Media's io9 (now Gizmodo). *In an interview published in Star Wars Insider 127, Timothy Zahn acknowledged Wookieepedia as one of the resources he uses to keep up with the Expanded Universe.Star Wars Insider 127 *On September 13, 2011, StarWars.com revamped their website, and created a new "Encyclopedia" to replace the Databank. The new entries linked to Wookieepedia. *In an interview with Easy Crafts Wiki in September 2011, Bonnie Burton noted that she loves Wookieepedia "for all the weird facts and extensive files on every single Star Wars thing you can imagine." *Author James Luceno cited Wookieepedia as a resource he used while researching the prehistory of Star Wars: Episode I The Phantom Menace for his novel Darth Plagueis. *On March 2, 2012, Wookieepedia was cited in a Cracked article on common misconceptions and misquotations in pop culture history. *Wookieepedia was mentioned in the acknowledgements of Jason Fry's The Essential Guide to Warfare. In a later interview in April 2012, Jason Fry noted the wiki as being a "fabulous resource" but "not an endpoint." *On April 25, 2012, io9's article "10 Alien Species from Star Wars Who Became Jedi Knights" used Wookieepedia as a source. *On his blog, the comic artist Zack Giallongo admitted using Wookieepedia while researching the various Ewok characters' appearance in all the movies, books, toys, and comics. Giallongo was later hired by Dark Horse Comics to produce the series Star Wars: Ewoks—Shadows of Endor. *Wookieepedia was interviewed at Celebration VI by The Dork Night Podcast. *Pablo Hidalgo thanks the many Wookieepedians in the Acknowledgments section of The Essential Reader's Companion for "undertaking their own research of this universe."The Essential Reader's Companion *On October 25, 2012, Australian comedy TV show The Unbelievable Truth, in a section based around the lightsaber, had Wookieepedia as one of the "truths," and claimed that it had over 90,000 pages. *On December 19, 2012, Gizmodo's article "Are These the First Leaked Star Wars Episode VII Plot Details?" references Wookieepedia's Yavin 4 article in discussing possible plot points for the sequel trilogy. *On January 10, 2013, Leland Chee, maintainer of the Holocron continuity database, congratulated Wookieepedia on its 100,000th article milestone. *On March 3, 2013, Wookieepedia's article on "Force meld" was referred to by Lucasfilm's Director of Communications Lynne Hale in response to confusion over the apparent misuse of the term "Jedi Mind Meld" by United States President Barack Obama during a news conference. thumb|250px|Wookieepedia is mentioned as a source on Mythbusters' Star Wars special. *Wookieepedia was mentioned in an io9 (now Gizmodo) article on April 4 in regards to Disney's shutdown of LucasArts and the possible "destruction" of the Expanded Universe. *Also on April 4, Wookieepedia's category on females was cited in a Star Wars Blog by 501st Legion founder Albin Johnson. *In the "Bantha Tracks" department of Star Wars Insider 146, editor Mary Franklin directed readers to Wookieepedia's article on Willrow Hood in response to Star Wars fans' "Running of the Hoods" event at Celebration Europe II in summer 2013. *In the November 2013 issue of United Airlines' Hemispheres, Wookieepedia is mentioned in an article about the Death Star Owner's Technical Manual. *The 2013 book Game On Hollywood! includes the essay "Millions of Voices: Star Wars, Digital Games, Fictional Worlds and Franchise Canon" by Felan Parker which cites Wookieepedia's canon policies in discussing continuity in Star Wars.Game On Hollywood! Essays on the Intersection of Video Games and Cinema. McFarland & Company (2013) *On Mythbusters' Star Wars special "Revenge of the Myth," which aired January 4, 2014, Wookieepedia is mentioned by Adam Savage as a source for the temperature on Hoth in determining the survivability inside a tauntaun. *During a period of concern about canon following the announcement of a "Story Group," Observation Deck posted an article on the situation, with a header image of Wookieepedia and The Completely Unofficial Star Wars Encyclopedia's logos from a banner used at Celebration IV. *On February 28, 2014, Dorkly released a comic featuring the eight types of Star Wars fans; one of the eight types was "Wookieepedia Editors," a subset of "Extended Canon-ites." Wookieepedia editors were represented by an Emperor Palpatine figure advertising Yuuzhan Vong trivia at his bar that no one would attend and a fan debating with himself on which member of the Figrin D'an and the Modal Nodes was his favorite. *On August 8, 2014, io9 mentioned "Wookiepedia" in regards to a "crisis" involving the various calendars of Star Wars after the creation of Legends materials and Leland Chee's involvement in clarifying these now defunct calendars on Twitter. thumb|250px|Chris Hardwick and his "hype nerd" recite from Wookieepedia. *On October 1, 2014, @midnight, hosted by Chris Hardwick and with guests Thomas Lennon, Cameron Esposito, and Daniel Sloss, used Wookieepedia in a game titled "NPR Anchor or Minor Star Wars Character." When referring to "the online Star Wars encyclopedia known as Wookieepedia," Hardwick states to the crowd "that's 100% true." In the game, Hardwick asks his contestants whether the names Jad Abumrad, Mas Amedda, and Jian Ghomeshi are NPR anchors or minor Star Wars characters, with Mas Amedda being the only character. Upon reveal, Hardwick displays an image of Amedda from his Wookieepedia article with the Wikia skin present. Hardwick follows this by then viewing Amedda as an NPR anchor wearing an "I love Shelter Cats" sweater. Hardwick also proceeds to view the NPR anchors as Star Wars characters, with Abumrad as C-3PO and Ghomeshi as Emperor Palpatine respectively. *On December 1, 2014, after the release of the first teaser trailer for Star Wars: Episode VII The Force Awakens, @midnight once again featured Wookieepedia to explain to fanboys upset with John Boyega apparently as a black stormtrooper that stormtroopers were no longer clones by the time of the new film. This episode with Tom Papa, Dave Hill, and Morgan Murphy involved displaying a version of Wookieepedia's stormtrooper article, with Chris Hardwick and his "hype nerd" reading various lines from the article. Emphasis was given to certain clips of information, particularly in how Jango Fett's clones were marginalized. It should be noted that the article in question was the Legends stormtrooper article. *On December 29, 2014, journalist Steve Haruch linked to several Wookieepedia articles for an NPR article on the actor who played Telsij and other Asian characters in the Star Wars universe, namely Ardon Crell, Rayc Ryjerd, Corman Jeihn, Bana Breemu, and Bultar Swan, as well as the Holocron continuity database managed by Leland Chee. Jan Solbidder and Selig Kenjenn were other names mentioned but were not linked. *On April 14, 2015, YouTube personalities Rhett and Link posted a video on their Good Mythical More channel that discussed "what if" scenarios. At one point, the topic turns to Star Wars science, and Link states "where there's whole Star Wars Wikipedias.. Wiki... whatever, the Wookieepedia, where like people have talked about the gravitational pull on every planet, and all this data exists, and I think that's awesome." *On April 16, 2015, on the first day of Celebration Anaheim, StarWars.com has an interview with Leland Chee and Pablo Hidalgo about the Star Wars universe, and Wookieepedia is mentioned twice by the interviewer. *On April 17, 2015, during Celebration Anaheim, Wookieepedia was the focus of an Forbes article by Zack O'Malley Greenburg about Star Wars fandom and the wiki. *On April 20, 2015, Wookieepedia was further mentioned by Greenburg in a summary of Celebration Anaheim. *On April 22, 2015, after the release of the second teaser trailer, Wookieepedia was mentioned in an article by the London Evening Standard discussing the anticipation of Star Wars: Episode VII The Force Awakens. Author William Moore recommended readers "brush up" on Wookieepedia, and did indicate that "yes, it's a real website." *On April 23, 2015, an article by Entertainment Weekly's Anthony Breznican linked to Wookieepedia's article on Anakin Skywalker's second lightsaber as it may have made an appearance in Star Wars: Episode VII The Force Awakens. *On May 4, 2015, Wookieepedia and the new Star Wars canon were the focus of a Tech Times article by Steven Schneider. *On May 17, 2015, Wookieepedia was mentioned in an article by Alaska Dispatch News' Alex DeMarban about Alaskan native Mary Franklin. *The November 14, 2015 podcast of The Skeptics' Guide to the Universe mentioned Wookieepedia in its opening minute in regards to preparing for the release of The Force Awakens. *On November 17, 2015, Wookieepedia was visually referenced in Screen Junkies' Honest Trailer for Star Wars: Episode IV A New Hope, though "Wikipedia" may have been audibly cited. *As part of AV Club's Star Wars Week in November 2015, Wookieepedia is linked to in discussion of Mara Jade Skywalker in an article on excisions from Star Wars canon. thumb|250px|Cracked's Daniel O' Brian highlights the Legends version of the Ewok article. *In the AV Club article "If you could change one thing about Star Wars, what would it be?," contributing author and Editor-in-Chief John Teti refers directly to Wookieepedia when looking for specific information on how holochess differed from dejarik, noting "Wookieepedia insists that holochess 'differed on crucial points from dejarik' without feeling the need to mention what any of those crucial points might be." The information was cited directly from The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia entry on holochess and as of the article's publication has not been expanded upon. *On December 1, 2015, Zachary Feinstein of Washington University published an essay on the cost of destroying the Death Stars and the financial fallout and cited Wookieepedia on three occasions. This essay was picked up by several news vendors including Popular Science, where contributor Kelsey D. Atherton mentioned "Wookiepedia" as a source. *Also on December 1, Buzzfeed's Joseph Bernstein and Charlie Warzel referred to "Wookiepedia" when defining the term "jizz" in their article. *In early December 2015, About.com's Star Wars Expert, Robin Parrish, wrote about "How Wookieepedia Conquered Star Wars Fandom." *On December 23, 2015, Katherine Cusumano wrote for Forbes about how Wookieepedia has seen a massive increase in traffic from the release of The Force Awakens. *Also on December 23, 2015, Nelson Granados referenced Wookieepedia's traffic increase in another Forbes article about how The Force Awakens was driving traffic across the web. *On December 31, 2015, Collider.com's Dave Trumbore pointed to Wookieepedia as a source of background character information regarding cameos in The Force Awakens. *On January 18, 2016, Cracked.com's Obsessive Pop Culture Disorder, hosted by Daniel O'Brian, covered Ewoks and the dark secret behind them as vicious man-eating monsters. When citing their usage of poison-tipped arrows, the video directly cites Wookieepedia as a "thoroughly researched database" and references the Legends tab of the Ewok article. The video highlights text within the Weapons and Equipment section, attributed to Jason Fry's The Essential Guide to Warfare. The screen grab was made when Wookieepedia's article count registered 124,788. *Star Wars: The Force Awakens costume designer Michael Kaplan namedropped Wookieepedia in an interview with Clothes On Film just before Christmas 2015: "The fact that I didn't have total recall of the [original] films... isn't that what Wookiepedia [sic] is for?" *In Switzerland, a research team from École Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne used Wookieepedia as their primary source to conduct a study on the size and scope of the Legends continuity. *In the feature "Jyn, the Rebel" featured on the digital release of Rogue One, Felicity Jones stated that she researched Wookieepedia to better prepare for her role as Jyn Erso. *Ben Blacker mentioned Wookieepedia in a May 9, 2017 StarWars.com article regarding Join the Resistance. *Jon Kasdan mentioned in a 2018 interview that he used Wookieepedia to aid in writing Solo: A Star Wars Story. It was also revealed that the writers and directors researched Wookieepedia for spaceports on Corellia, where they found the name of "Coronet Spaceport" and decided to use it for the film. *In an interview with The Big Event podcast, Alden Ehrenreich talked about research for his role as Han Solo, and mentioned that he read articles on Wookieepedia to prepare and gain a larger understanding. *Author Delilah S. Dawson discovered the Pink pachydermoid species via Wookieepedia and decided to include the species within the 2019 comic Star Wars Adventures (2017) 25, which had the effect of canonizing the species.Star Wars Adventures (2017) 25 }} *While writing The Odyssey of Star Wars: An Epic Poem, author Jack Mitchell used Wookieepedia for research and in an interview stated "I am truly in the debt of Wookieepedia." *Wookieepedia's editors were thanked in the credits of the 2021 video game LEGO Star Wars: Castaways.LEGO Star Wars: Castaways *In an interview with the Force Geeks podcast in 2022, Marlon Aquino revealed that he came across Wookieepedia during his online research to familiarize himself with the Twi'lek species, due to his role in Star Wars: The Book of Boba Fett. *While writing the novel Inquisitor: Rise of the Red Blade, author Delilah S. Dawson used Wookieepedia for research. She discovered the Grenade droid of Legends and included the unit in her novel, canonizing the B1 battle droid variant. *While writing the novel The Living Force, author John Jackson Miller used Wookieepedia for research.|archivedate=20231024182908}} *Wookieepedia's host, Fandom, collated proprietary data across film franchises and ranked Star Wars as the top franchise of the year 2023. *In a podcast interview in early 2024, Nelson Lee mentioned Wookieepedia when asked about his Ahsoka role as Hamato Xiono, jokingly mentioning his own article will be mentioned on his epitaph. *In an interview with the Associated Press in 2024, Amandla Stenberg revealed that they dove into Star Wars lore using Wookieepedia after booking the role of Verosha and Mae-ho Aniseya. *In 2024, Pablo Hidalgo called Wookieepedia "wonderful" and helped its editors by pointing out an outdated statement on his own Wookieepedia page that had been brought to his attention. *As revealed by the actor in 2024, background actor Greg Kufera uses Wookieepedia as both a fan and within the capacity as an on-set actor.Instagram message from Greg Kufera &mdash; Used with permission *In 2025, author Adam Lance Garcia was overjoyed to see Wookieepedia editors update the site with information from his short story "Galactic Tales: The Failing of the Light." *The October 2025 Star Wars: Beyond Victory mixed reality playset includes an interactable viewscreen of Aurebesh text mentioning "Holopedia" and its praise for "Space Wars"&mdash;content creators Alex and Mollie Damon of the YouTube channel Star Wars Explained said that the artist Stephen Zavala reached out to confirm that the text on Holopedia and the accompanying "Space Wars Explained" are shoutouts to Wookieepedia and their channel. *Jason Fry thanked five Wookieepedians&mdash;Cade Calrayn, Hk 47, Imperators II, ThrawnChiss7, and &mdash;for helping with his work on the Star Wars Galaxy Map feature on StarWars.com in October 2025. *Author Kwame Mbalia, writer of the Star Wars novel The Last Order which released on October 21, 2025, thanked Wookieepedia in the acknowledgements section of the novel.The Last Order Like all wikis, Wookieepedia has been criticized for common wiki flaws such as pushing a certain point of view and for its easily editable nature, leading to frequent vandalism. A question on the TFN Boards in 2008 asked whether the wiki continued to be reliable, to which replied, "To a degree. We generally keep the nonsense out, but we're not perfect, and sometimes something slips through." Vandalism can easily distort canonical information if not checked; however, with Wookieepedia being one of the most active wikis, vandalism going unnoticed is rare. Fandom released an apology to Newsweek after racist edits were noticed by fans visiting Rose Tico's page. *Jedi Exile &mdash; "Jedi Exile" began as a fanon nickname for this nameless character (called just "exile" in the game dialogue), but was adopted in The New Essential Guide to Droids. *Wookieepedia's conjectural term "Sith Triumvirate" was canonized by the Knights of the Old Republic Campaign Guide. *Padawan Massacre &mdash; The event was first called "Padawan Massacre of Taris" on Wookieepedia for lack of an official term. Later this term was adopted into canon sources, before being finalized by John Jackson Miller as "Padawan Massacre." *Mygeetan &mdash; before being given the name "Lurmen," "Mygeetan" began as a fanon nickname on Wookieepedia for the nameless natives of Mygeeto. Later this term was adopted in The Essential Atlas. *Broon Ters was originally a player-chosen name in Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic II: The Sith Lords used for the Jedi Exile, which was uploaded in a screenshot on the Wookieepedia. This screenshot was later printed in The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia, making the name canon for several years. But in November 2011, the publication of The Old Republic: Revan clarified that the Exile's name is actually Meetra Surik. thumb|right|250px|Mandalore the Ultimate, whose supposed Mando'a title "Te Ani'la Mand'alor" first emerged due on Wookieepedia *In 2006, during the early days of Wookieepedia where less oversight existed, a Wookieepedia editor going by the name Doran added fan translations to the pages of several Mandalorian leaders, roughly attempting to render their names in the Mando'a language. The fanon translations managed to remain up on Wookieepedia and spread across the Mandalorian fandom as if they were confirmed; the alleged Mando'a title of Mandalore the Ultimate, for example, was written and then spread as "Te Ani'la Mand'alor" as if it was official. This culminated in the 2017 canon reference book Star Wars: The Visual Encyclopedia naming a type of Mandalorian tree the trees of Te Ani'la,Star Wars: The Visual Encyclopedia thereby canonizing part of the Mando'a name for the Ultimate once coined by Doran for wiki aesthetic value. Once brought to the attention of current Wookieepedia editors, the fan-translated name on Mandalore the Ultimate's page was removed due to its basis in speculation, but the tree of Te Ani'la page remains due to its canonical citation. *Cloud-Riders &mdash; Jon Kasdan, writer of Solo: A Star Wars Story, found the Star Wars Legends Cloud-Riders when browsing Wookieepedia and the name stuck. *631 model B1 battle droid was a conjectural title for the 631 model of B1-series battle droids despite a non-conjectural title being available, but the fifty-sixth issue of De Agostini's Star Wars: Build the Millennium Falcon magazine canonized the name nonetheless. *As a joke on Wookieepedia titling the article for the first Sith in the new Star Wars canon as "unidentified rogue Jedi," author Jack Mitchell referred to the character as "the nameless founder" in The Odyssey of Star Wars: An Epic Poem, published in 2021. In addition to Wookieepedia, several other Star Wars wikis exist in multiple languages. These different language encyclopedias were started and are currently run by different people. Several wikis have been spawned from Wookieepedia. These include the Star Wars Fanon Wiki, the Star Wars Games Wiki, the LEGO Star Wars Wiki, the Star Wars Fanpedia, the Clone Wars Wiki, the Clone Wars Adventures Wiki, the Star Wars: The Old Republic Wiki, and the Star Wars Rebels Wiki. In addition, the site appears to be written entirely in Shyriiwook. }} Category:Online reference databases Category:Star Wars culture Category:Unofficial websites