563
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/I_have_a_bad_feeling_about_this
I have a bad feeling about this
78876

I've got a bad feeling about this!|Secret Rebel Alliance funder, to Luke Skywalker|Star Wars Annual (2015) 4}} thumb|right|300px|Luke Skywalker has a very bad feeling about approaching a "small moon" "I have a bad feeling about this" is a well-known phrase in Star Wars and has become a running gag throughout the saga, as well as several different Lucasfilm stories and other works. The phrase is spoken for the first time in Star Wars: Episode IV A New Hope by Luke Skywalker when he says he has a "bad feeling" about the small moon (The Death Star, unknown to him) he and his friends in the Millennium Falcon were approaching. The phrase reappeared at least once in each subsequent movie. It is also heavily featured and referenced in other Star Wars media, such as books, comics and video games, where the locution can vary in its exact wording. When spoken, the A in "bad" is sometimes drawn out, as "I have a baad feeling about this." The phrase is also occasionally referenced by having a character say "I have a good feeling about this," or something to that effect.Star Wars (2015) 1 Star Wars: Episode VIII The Last Jedi is the first Star Wars film to not feature "I have a bad feeling about this" spoken in Galactic Basic Standard. However, the film's director, Rian Johnson, confirmed that the line is in the film, and that it is spoken by BB-8 during the opening battle sequence. In Huttese, the "bad feeling" is Dopo me goola.Star Wars (2015) 24 NB: The lists concerning Star Wars media are in chronological order. }} }} }} *Solo: A Star Wars Story *Rogue One: A Star Wars Story }} }} }} }} **BB-8 says "I have a bad feeling about this" in binary during the evacuation of D'Qar, to which Poe Dameron replies with "Happy beeps here, buddy, come on." This is also why Leia tells Poe, "Just for the record, Commander Dameron, I'm with the droid on this one." }} *In The High Republic: Light of the Jedi, Kassav Milliko is described as having a "very bad feeling" while Marchion Ro is sending Kassav's Tempest a message during the Battle of Kur. *In Brotherhood, Ruug Quarnom expresses that she "[has] a bad feeling about this" upon collaborating with Obi-Wan Kenobi and discovering that they found no conclusive evidence regarding the Cadesura disaster.Brotherhood *In Star Wars: Absolutely Everything You Need to Know, the phrase is given in Shyriiwook as "Roooarrgh ur roo,"Star Wars: Absolutely Everything You Need to Know while in the young reader's novel The Mighty Chewbacca in the Forest of Fear!, Chewbacca expresses it as "Murghhhhh grrbokgh."The Mighty Chewbacca in the Forest of Fear! *In The Weapon of a Jedi: A Luke Skywalker Adventure, C-3PO says "I have a bad feeling about this," while riding a happabore on Devaron.The Weapon of a Jedi: A Luke Skywalker Adventure *In Leia, Princess of Alderaan, Leia says "I have a good feeling about this" before she jumps to safety whilst climbing.Leia, Princess of Alderaan *In "The Red One" (From a Certain Point of View), R5-D4 repeatedly experiences a "bad feeling" after being purchased by Owen Lars."The Red One" *In Lost Stars, Thane Kyrell says "I've got a bad feeling about this" as TIE fighters approach the hidden Corona Squadron as they scout the Imperial fleet in the Hudalla system.Lost Stars *In Aftermath, Mister Bones says "I have a bad feeling about this" when Uugteen chase him, Temmin Wexley, and their group through the Catacombs of Akiva.Aftermath *In Aftermath: Empire's End, Norra Wexley says "I've got a bad feeling about this," during the Battle of Jakku as she and Mister Bones make their way to the Imperial base in an attempt to find and capture Rae Sloane.Aftermath: Empire's End *In Shadow of the Sith, Lando Calrissian says "Have I mentioned I have a bad feeling about this yet, because I can feel it's starting to come on", during his and Luke's search for his own daughter and possible Sith threat.Shadow of the Sith *In "Hear Nothing, See Nothing, Say Nothing" (Canto Bight), as Lexo Sooger and his daughter Lula separate for the night, they are both described to have "had a bad feeling." In Sanctuary: A Bad Batch Novel, the text notes "Hunter had a bad feeling about this" as Phee Genoa, Tech, and Omega enter a palace without any communications open to Hunter and Wrecker.Sanctuary: A Bad Batch Novel *In "Tales from Wild Space: The Big March from Star Wars Adventures (2017) 19, Q5-7070 says "I have a negative presentment about this," when a large avian creature is about to eat him.Star Wars Adventures (2017) 19 *The cover for Ghosts of Vader's Castle 5 has Jaxxon T. Tumperakki saying the phrase to Lina Graf and Thom Hudd. *In Star Wars (2015) 1, C-3PO references the iconic phrase by saying, "I have a very good feeling about this," regarding the rebels' infiltration of the Imperial weapons factory on Cymoon 1. *In Star Wars Annual (2015) 4, Luke Skywalker says, "I've got a bad--", but the secret Rebel Alliance funder that he is talking to, says "You've got a bad feeling about this, yes, Luke? You rebels are always saying that. It's almost like a motto. When the first rebel fired the first shot against the empire, he did so with a cry of "I've got a bad feeling about this!" *In Princess Leia 1, R2-D2 displays a message in Aurebesh on a computer screen saying 'I've got a bad feeling about this', as he, Leia Organa and Evaan Verlaine set off on a mission to rescue the survivors of Alderaan.Princess Leia 1 *In Doctor Aphra (2016) 26, Doctor Aphra states "I have a bad feeling about this" after being stranded on Milvayne.Doctor Aphra (2016) 26 *In Darth Vader (2020) 47, Luke Skywalker says to R2-D2, "Well, maybe I've got a good feeling about this."Darth Vader (2020) 47 *In The Last Jedi Adaptation 4, Finn says "I had a bad feeling about this…" when they are captured on the Supremacy.The Last Jedi Adaptation 4 *In Jedi Knights 2, Vetna Mooncrest says, "Master Yoda, I have a bad feeling about--" Jedi Knights 2 *In Doctor Aphra – Chaos Agent 2, while Luke Skywalker is headed to the Quatro Cortagio club with Doctor Aphra, Luke Skywalker reassures her, "We'll be fine. I have a good feeling about this."Doctor Aphra – Chaos Agent 2 *In Doctor Aphra – Chaos Agent 3, while in the Quarter clan's headquarters on Felucia, Doctor Aphra says to Han Solo, "I have a bad feeling about that room."Doctor Aphra – Chaos Agent 3 *In Star Wars: Force Collection, the phrase is featured whenever there is a battle.Star Wars: Force Collection *In Star Wars Battlefront, the phrase is available from the beginning as an emote the player can use in game.Star Wars Battlefront *In Star Wars Jedi: Fallen Order, Cal Kestis said he "had a bad feeling I'd see you here" when he encountered the Second Sister on Bogano.Star Wars Jedi: Fallen Order *In Star Wars Battlefront II, it is referenced in the campaign when Lando Calrissian is speaking to Shriv Suurgav regarding an operation on Sullust, commenting, "you've got a bad feeling about this, I'd be worried if you didn't."Star Wars Battlefront II *Star Wars: The Clone Wars **In "Shadow of Malevolence," it is said by a B1-series battle droid about the ensuing battle. **In "Rookies," Commander Cody says it as he and Captain Rex walk towards the listening post on the Rishi Moon. **In "Downfall of a Droid," Anakin Skywalker says it just before his ship is critically damaged at the Battle of Bothawui. **In "Duel of the Droids," Rex says it to Anakin Skywalker as they are surrounded by battle droids in Skytop Station. It is said as "I've got a bad feeling about this, sir." **In "Bombad Jedi," this is C-3PO's response to Jar Jar's plan to rescue Padmé Amidala. **In "Cloak of Darkness," Nute Gunray's response to both Faro Argyus crediting himself of rescuing him and to Asajj Ventress greeting him after killing the traitorous Captain to report to Count Dooku herself for downplaying her role in the Viceroy's rescue. **In "Lair of Grievous" (Director's Cut Version), Nahdar Vebb says it right before the floor gives way beneath him, Kit Fisto, and a few clone troopers. **In "Blue Shadow Virus," C-3PO says "I'm getting a bad feeling about this" after a droid's head starts to get sawed open. **In "Mystery of a Thousand Moons," Obi-Wan Kenobi says it upon entering the Reeksa cave. **In "Legacy of Terror," Anakin Skywalker says it upon entering an underground room filled with zombies. **In "Brain Invaders," Ahsoka Tano says the line to Kit Fisto. **In "The Zillo Beast," Mace Windu says the line as the Zillo Beast wakes up. **In "The Zillo Beast Strikes Back," Supreme Chancellor Palpatine says the line as he is trapped in his Executive ship, which is in the grips of an angry Zillo Beast. **In "The Academy," Lagos says it as the cadets are about to enter a government warehouse. **In "Mercy Mission," C-3PO says it just before he accidentally falls into the underworld of Aleen. **In "Point of No Return," WAC-47 says it as D-Squad approaches the Renown. *Star Wars Rebels **In "Call to Action," Chopper says "I have a bad feeling about this" during the raid on the communications tower, with Sabine Wren adding "yeah, you and me both." **In "The Lost Commanders," Chopper says "I have a bad feeling about this" as the Spectres prepare to depart to seek out a potential ally recommended by Ahsoka Tano. **In "The Call," Ezra Bridger says "I have a good feeling about this" regarding the purrgil. **In "Warhead," Chopper says "I have a bad feeling about this" after Garazeb Orrelios decides to bring an E-XD-series infiltrator droid back to Chopper Base thinking it is a protocol droid. *Star Wars Resistance **In "Breakout," Kazuda Xiono says "I've got a bad feeling about this" as the First Order arrives on Varkana. *Star Wars: Young Jedi Adventures **In "Creature Comforts," Lys Solay says "I've got a bad feeling about this" as she hears the roar of an adult mardorsh while on safari on Aludia. **In "Best Friends," Kai Brightstar says "I've got a bad feeling about this" when Nubs convinces him to follow him through an unknown part of the Tenoo tree forest. **In "The Battle of Tenoo," Lys Solay says "I've got a bad feeling about this" as a group of pirates led by the Ganguls arrive on Tenoo to invade the Tenoo Jedi Temple. *Star Wars: The Acolyte **In "Revenge / Justice," Yord Fandar says "I've got a bad feeling about this" as he stakes out the apothecary on Olega. *Ahsoka ** In "Part Four: Fallen Jedi," after the Eye of Sion jumps into hyperspace, Jacen Syndulla tells his mother Hera, "I've got a bad feeling." *Star Wars: Skeleton Crew **In "We're Gonna Be In So Much Trouble", Neel's mother says "I have a bad--" while they are secretly installing their communication device, before getting interrupted by the safety droids. *In Darth Maul: Shadow Hunter, Obi-Wan Kenobi says "I've got a bad feeling about this" after seeing the results of the fight between Anoon Bondara and Darth Maul and questioning the locals about it.Darth Maul: Shadow Hunter *In The Clone Wars: Wild Space, Obi-Wan Kenobi experiences a bad feeling when he senses the dark side of the Force swirling about him behind Dex's Diner. Much later in the book, when he foresees the possibility of being in a violent situation after he and Bail Organa jump into Wild Space, Kenobi informs Bail of his misgivings and when Bail responds with skepticism, Kenobi says that he is sure that he has a "bad feeling." Shortly before arriving at their destination, Organa asks Kenobi if he still has that "bad feeling" and Kenobi replies in the affirmative.The Clone Wars: Wild Space *In Shatterpoint, Nick Rostu interprets one of Mace Windu's lines as "I have a bad feeling about this." Later in the novel, Nick thinks "I have a good feeling about this," partially changing the words but thoroughly changing the meaning. Mace also mentions it in his private journal, saying, "I don't need any hints from the Force to have a bad feeling about this."Shatterpoint *In The Hive, it is said by Jesson Di Blinth.The Hive *In the Revenge of the Sith novelization, Dooku has a "sudden, unexpected, overpowering, and entirely distressing bad feeling about this" when Obi-Wan and Anakin begin to overpower him onboard Invisible Hand, Anakin says the line just before Obi-Wan goes to fight General Grievous, and Bail Organa says it after he orders Raymus Antillies to get the Tantive IV ready, before he goes to investigate the burning of the Jedi Temple.Revenge of the Sith novelization *In Dark Lord: The Rise of Darth Vader, Olee Starstone has a bad feeling about a "creepy stairway."Dark Lord: The Rise of Darth Vader *In Coruscant Nights II: Street of Shadows, Den Dhur asks Laranth Tarak if "it would do any good now to say that I've got a bad feeling about this" while they are their on way to visit a Cephalon. Laranth tells Den to "Consider it indigestion, and deal with it."Coruscant Nights II: Street of Shadows *In The Last of the Jedi: Master of Deception, Astri Oddo says about Niro 11: "I don't like this place. There's a bad feeling here."The Last of the Jedi: Master of Deception *In Rebel Dawn, the narrative states that Durga Besadii Tai "had a bad feeling about this.&hellip;"Rebel Dawn *In Death Star, Kornell Divini recalls that Sullustan Den Dhur often said "I've got a bad feeling about this."Death Star *In Star Wars Galaxies: The Ruins of Dantooine, Luke Skywalker says "I have a bad feeling about this" after Dusque and Finn receive their briefing from Leia.Star Wars Galaxies: The Ruins of Dantooine *In A Bad Feeling: The Tale of EV-9D9, the title itself partially quotes the phrase. *In The Glove of Darth Vader, C-3PO says "I have a very bad feeling about this, Artoo" when he notices a group of stormtroopers searching for their escape craft. After the stormtroopers find it and destroy it, C-3PO's bad feeling gets worse.The Glove of Darth Vader *In Mission from Mount Yoda, Han Solo says "I have a bad feeling about this" when he spots a septapus.Mission from Mount Yoda *In A Hunter's Fate: Greedo's Tale, Greedo, before his final confrontation with Han Solo, paraphrases the line as "I'm getting a bad feeling." *In the Shadows of the Empire novelization, Lando says that he hates to be the one to say this line as they attempt the unsuccessful rescue of Han Solo from Boba Fett. Later, after Lando rescues Luke from a band of bounty hunters, Lando promptly cuts Luke off as he attempts to utter the line.Shadows of the Empire *In X-Wing: Solo Command, Tyria Sarkin said the line to her fellow Wraiths during their Mission to Saffalore.X-Wing: Solo Command *In The Courtship of Princess Leia, Leia says "I've got a bad feeling about this" when seeing Zsinj's satellites in Dathomir's sky.The Courtship of Princess Leia *In Tatooine Ghost, Leia says "I'm beginning to have a bad feeling" when talking to Han about their previous conversation with the crew of the Chimaera (pretending to be Imperials) as their hoverscout is simultaneously attacked by Tusken Raiders.Tatooine Ghost *In Heir to the Empire, Leia says "I've got a bad feeling about this" before she and Han spot their would-be kidnappers. Later, she also asks why she suddenly has a bad feeling about visiting Lando. Han also says "I've got a bad feeling about this" when he goes into hiding before an Imperial delegation visits Talon Karrde's smuggler base. He also says to Luke, "You aren't gonna say you have a bad feeling about this, are you? I hate it when you say that."Heir to the Empire *In Dark Force Rising, Luke says "I have a bad feeling about this" upon discovering Thrawn's cloned troops. Han advises him, "Join the club."Dark Force Rising *In Champions of the Force, C-3PO says "I have a bad feeling about this mission already." Later, Han Solo says "I've got a bad feeling about this" twice in different chapters.Champions of the Force *In Children of the Jedi, Luke Skywalker says "I've got a bad feeling about this" repeatedly.Children of the Jedi *In Darksaber, Han Solo says "I've got a bad feeling about whatever they're up to." Later, Luke Skywalker says "I've got a bad feeling about this."Darksaber *In The New Rebellion, R2-D2 tells C-3PO that he has a "bad feeling" about the modifications that are being performed on Luke's X-wing. Later in the scene, when R2-D2 and C-3PO become the center of attention, C-3PO says that he himself has "a bad feeling about this." When Leia sees Kueller's detonator, she also has a bad feeling about it.The New Rebellion *In Ambush at Corellia, Luke Skywalker states "I've got a bad feeling about this" after he uses the Force to get a general impression of the emotions of the inhabitants of the Corellian system. Also, Lando says not to say "I've got a bad feeling about this," and says, "something bad always happens when someone says that phrase." And at the end of the book, Lando says "I've got a bad feeling about this" describing the situation of the gravity wells.Ambush at Corellia *In Before the Storm, Han says, "I've got a bad feeling about this" to Leia when they are going to see what Luke is going to tell them about "family matters."Before the Storm *In Before the Storm, Luke says "I've got a bad feeling about this" to Akanah Norand Goss Pell when the condition of the trail to the Fallanassi village of Ialtra was dilapidated. *In Before the Storm, Han states "I've got a bad feeling about this" when he sees Nil Spaar giving a speech on the holomonitor. *In Lando Calrissian: Idiot's Array, it is uttered by Lando Calrissian.Lando Calrissian: Idiot's Array *In Vision of the Future, while hearing an oncoming swarm of Fire creepers, Mara Jade states that she's got a bad feeling they were about to meet a new species of roverines." Additionally, before meeting Jorj Car'das, C-3PO utters "But I must say, I have a bad feeli&mdash;" before being interrupted.Vision of the Future *In Junior Jedi Knights: Anakin's Quest, Anakin Solo first says, "I've got a strange feeling about this." He later says "It'll be fine. I've just got a feeling about this."Junior Jedi Knights: Anakin's Quest *Young Jedi Knights **In Heirs of the Force, Jacen Solo states "I have a bad feeling about this" when he discovers that his crystal snake had broken out of its cage and when Jaina expresses her belief that a derelict TIE Fighter can be fixed.Young Jedi Knights: Heirs of the Force **In Shadow Academy, Jacen states "I have a bad feeling about this" when he realizes that he, Jaina, and Lowbacca are going to be subject to a kidnapping attempt. Brakiss also has a generalized "bad feeling" about the Jedi trainees while unbeknownst to him, they are in the middle of an escape attempt. He doesn't give voice to this bad feeling, however.Young Jedi Knights: Shadow Academy **In The Lost Ones, Jacen states that he has a "good feeling" about the prospect of finding some space debris to shoot at before the Falcon reverts from hyperspace. Later in the book, C-3PO says "I have a bad feeling about this" after his unsuccessful attempts to comb Zekk's hair. Zekk shares the sentiment but does not say so.Young Jedi Knights: The Lost Ones **In Crisis at Crystal Reef, the phrase is spoken twice, once by Jacen, before finding out Zekk's ship was stolen by Anja, and by Tenel Ka, before the sea creature attacks the group's minisub.Young Jedi Knights: Crisis at Crystal Reef *New Jedi Order **In Vector Prime, Han says "I've got a&mdash;" upon seeing the panicked denizens of Sernpidal, only to be interrupted by his son, Anakin, who smugly completes the phrase. Han then tells Anakin that he was going to say "&mdash;lot to do." During this exchange, the narrator states that "I've got a bad feeling about this" is Han's "trademark line." Later, when Jacen starts to say that Helska 4 is about to explode, the narrator states that Han "got a typically bad feeling about this."The New Jedi Order: Vector Prime **In Force Heretic I: Remnant, first, Han Solo says "I'll just be glad when we're off this rock," and then Leia interrupts him: "Don't tell me: You're getting a bad feeling about this place, right?" Soon afterwards, Leia explains the situation: "(&hellip;) But then, that's not to say that I'm entirely happy with what I see here, either. I'm getting a bad feeling about all of this, although I hate to say it."The New Jedi Order: Force Heretic I: Remnant **In Edge of Victory I: Conquest, Jaina Solo tells Anakin and Jacen that she has a bad feeling about Viqi Shesh.The New Jedi Order: Edge of Victory I: Conquest **In Traitor, Jacen Solo says the line twice while investigating the dark side-infused ruins of the Jedi Temple.The New Jedi Order: Traitor *In Legacy of the Force: Bloodlines, Mara refers to the line as having "the proverbial bad feeling." Also, later in the same book Leia and Han have a small exchange about the phrase.Legacy of the Force: Bloodlines *In Tales of the Jedi: The Golden Age of the Sith, a Kirrek pirate at the Battle of Kirrek says "I've got a bad feeling about this!"Star Wars: Tales of the Jedi — The Golden Age of the Sith *In Star Wars: Tales of the Jedi - Dark Lords of the Sith 4, Cay Qel-Droma responds to Ulic Qel-Droma's plan to infiltrate the krath by saying "Ulic... I've have a bad feeling..." *In Qui-Gon and Obi-Wan: The Aurorient Express it is said by Obi-Wan Kenobi. Qui-Gon Jinn responds by saying, "I'd appreciate it if only for once you didn't feel obligation to mention that&hellip;"Qui-Gon and Obi-Wan: The Aurorient Express *In Republic 60, it is said by Obi-Wan Kenobi, while escaping from Rattatak.Republic 60 *In Jedi: Yoda it is said by Pix during the Battle of Thustra.Jedi: Yoda *In Jedi: Shaak Ti, Sagoro Autem partially quotes it as "I got a bad feeling being out here."Jedi: Shaak Ti *In The Clone Wars: Act on Instinct, Tyzen Xebec says it to Sanya.The Clone Wars: Act on Instinct *In Reversal of Fortune, it is said by Ekria, as clones advance on the Jedi in the last panel of the series.Reversal of Fortune *In "Falling Star," a young Biggs starts to say "Got a bad feeling 'bout this," but is cut off by Luke."Falling Star" *In Ewoks (1985) 12, Princess Kneesaa says the line when she sees the Thorn monster that Morag created.Ewoks (1985) 12 *In the comic strip Darth Vader Strikes, C-3PO says "Frankly, Master Luke&hellip; I've a bad feeling about this."Darth Vader Strikes *In "Slippery Slope," Luke says "I've got a bad feeling about this" when he sees Milko flying through the jungle on a jetpack."Slippery Slope" *In "Death Star Pirates," Luke says "I'm getting a bad feeling about this" when he first confronts Redkihl Rokk's Pirates."Death Star Pirates" *In The Other, Leia tells Luke not to say he's got a bad feeling about it, saying "If I had a credit for every time I heard that..."The Other *In "Lando's Commandos: On Eagles' Wings," it is said by Isolde Siro before they embark on their mission to stop the TIE Pirates. She almost died on the mission."Lando's Commandos: On Eagles' Wings" *In Star Wars: Union, Luke Skywalker begins to say it, but Mara Jade tells him to stop.Star Wars: Union *In "Storyteller," Remoh says it before entering the cave holding C-3PO."Storyteller" *In Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic, after the player agrees to get tach glands for Griff Vao, Mission says she has a bad feeling about his scheme when the player initiates a conversation with her on the topic.Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic *In Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic II: The Sith Lords, it is said by Atton Rand when the Harbinger approaches Peragus, and before the group encounters Darth Sion and, by a TSF Officer on Telos IV. During the first instance of the quote in the game, it is revealed to be a game mechanic that suggests the player save the game whenever the line is uttered. In cut content of the Droid Factory, HK-47 says "As a meatbag would say, I have a bad feeling about this." when his self-preservation program is changed.Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic II: The Sith Lords *In Star Wars: Bounty Hunter, it is said by Rozatta in the cut scene when Vosa's image fades.Star Wars: Bounty Hunter *In Star Wars: Episode I The Phantom Menace video game, it is said by Obi-Wan Kenobi in the opening cut scene aboard the Trade Federation Ship.Star Wars: Episode I The Phantom Menace video game *In Star Wars: Republic Commando, Boss, squad leader of Delta Squad, says it multiple times at climactic encounters with enemies.Star Wars: Republic Commando *In Star Wars: The Clone Wars (video game) after Count Dooku escapes and Anakin is nowhere to be found.Star Wars: The Clone Wars (video game) *In Star Wars: Battlefront II, it's said by Han Solo when playing as him; by Obi-Wan Kenobi when met by the player on the battlefront and by the Rebel Commander when facing a losing battle.Star Wars: Battlefront II *In Star Wars: The Force Unleashed, Juno Eclipse, the pilot of the Rogue Shadow, says it to Galen Marek before he takes a dive into the Death Star. Galen replies with "Then maybe we're doing something right".Star Wars: The Force Unleashed *In Star Wars: The Force Unleashed II, when Starkiller is forcing the Salvation towards Kamino, he says the line when the ship enters Kamino's atmosphere.Star Wars: The Force Unleashed II *In Star Wars: Empire at War, it is said by Han Solo when moving him.Star Wars: Empire at War *In Star Wars: Empire at War: Forces of Corruption, Tyber Zann says it as soon as he and Urai Fen enter a droid factory on Hypori.Star Wars: Empire at War: Forces of Corruption *In Star Wars: Rogue Squadron II: Rogue Leader, it's used by Luke Skywalker when piloting through a nebula along the Ison Corridor.Star Wars: Rogue Squadron II: Rogue Leader *In Star Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds, it is said by Leia Organa during the first Rebel mission and by Han Solo during the third Wookiee mission. Several versions are also available using the chat feature.Star Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds *In Star Wars Galaxies: An Empire Divided, Han Solo mentions it once he discovers Boba Fett is on Tansarii Point Station.Star Wars Galaxies: An Empire Divided *In Star Wars: Rebel Assault II: The Hidden Empire, it's said by Rookie One in the Terrors sewers, right before stormtroopers attack.Star Wars: Rebel Assault II: The Hidden Empire *In Star Wars: Rogue Squadron III: Rebel Strike, Wedge Antilles uses the phrase during the beginning of the mission to Destrillion.Star Wars: Rogue Squadron III: Rebel Strike *In Star Wars: Jedi Knight: Mysteries of the Sith, Mara Jade says "I got a bad feeling about this" when she passes through a corridor of electrical arcs.Star Wars: Jedi Knight: Mysteries of the Sith *In Star Wars: Jedi Knight II: Jedi Outcast, it is said by Kyle Katarn when he enters a cave infested with mine crabs on Artus Prime, as well as when he faces the prospect of navigating a series of horizontal crushers prior to facing Desann. It is also said by Imperial Workers if they hear but do not see Kyle Katarn.Star Wars: Jedi Knight II: Jedi Outcast *In Star Wars: Jedi Knight: Jedi Academy, it is said by Kyle Katarn after seeing freelance cargo ships in Mos Eisley while investigating with his apprentice Jaden Korr.Star Wars: Jedi Knight: Jedi Academy *In "Tests of the Godking" (published in Star Wars Campaign Pack, re-published in Classic Campaigns), NPC Siene Symm orders battle stations and any one of the PC's answers "Battle stations? On a yacht? I have a bad feeling about this!" *Star Wars Droids: The Adventures of R2-D2 and C-3PO **In "Escape Into Terror," C-3PO says the line when he sees what R2-D2 describes as "suspicious-looking characters.""Escape Into Terror" **In "Tail of the Roon Comets," C-3PO says the line as Mungo Baobab's ship enters a radioactive cloud in space."Tail of the Roon Comets" *Ewoks **In "Sunstar vs. Shadowstone," Princess Kneesaa says the line after seeing a strange light and hearing somebody (actually Morag) singing in a cave."Sunstar vs. Shadowstone" *Star Wars: Clone Wars **In Chapter 11, Obi-Wan says it as Anakin chases Asajj Ventress.Clone Wars Chapter 11 **In Chapter 16, Padmé Amidala says it, worrying about Yoda's safety.Clone Wars Chapter 16 **In Chapter 22, Obi-Wan says the line on Nelvaan right before a horax attacks.Clone Wars Chapter 22 *The Empire Strikes Back radio drama **In a scene added to "Dark Lord's Fury," Lando uses the line to confide to Lobot that he is uneasy about Darth Vader's presence in Cloud City (). *In LEGO Star Wars in 100 Scenes Obi-Wan says "I have a bad feeling about this master." To Which Qui-Gon Replies "I have a feeling I'm going to be hearing that a lot..."LEGO Star Wars in 100 Scenes *In Jedi Academy: Return of the Padawan, a non-canon novel about a boy named Roan Novachez who attends a Jedi academy, Roan states "I've got a bad feeling about this" after his wingmates ditch him during a flight simulator exam.Jedi Academy: Return of the Padawan *In The Secret of the Fortune Wookiee, an officially licensed parody/homage Young Reader book by Tom Angleberger, "Han Foldo" uses the phrase at the very end of the book when Principal Rabbski (the principal of the school the characters in the book attend) announces a new school education plan that cuts out all extracurriculars such as art, drama, and music.The Secret of the Fortune Wookiee *In Star Wars Infinities: A New Hope, as the Millennium Falcon approaches Coruscant, Han says: "I don't know what everyone's worried about. I've actually got a good feeling about this!" On seeing the size of the Imperial Fleet, he then says "Uh, on second thoughts, I've got a really really bad feeling about this."Star Wars Infinities: A New Hope *In Tag & Bink Were Here Tag very often has "bad feelings about" whatever ploy or plan Bink has come up with, ranging from impersonating stormtroopers to attempting to capture the Emperor.Tag & Bink Were Here *In "The Emperor's Court" (Star Wars Tales 14), Judge Palpatine begins his sentence with "Captain Solo, I've got a bad feeling about this.""The Emperor's Court" *LEGO Star Wars: The Yoda Chronicles **In "Menace of the Sith" Yoda says "A bad feeling about this I have". **In "Race for the Holocrons" Han Solo says "I have a good feeling about this" after he presumably blew up Darth Vader's TIE-fighter, but immediately after Vader himself boarded Solo's ship. *LEGO Star Wars: Droid Tales **In episode "Exit from Endor" Qui-Gon Jinn says "My good feeling about this turned into bad feeling about this, which again became good feeling about this." **In episode "Crisis on Coruscant" Anakin says "I have a good feeling about us" to Padme. *In LEGO Star Wars: All-Stars episode "Dealing with Lando/Han and Chewie Strike Back" Pace Freemaker says "I have a bad feeling about this" after Han Solo's proposal to fly on Ord Tellarom. *LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures **In "A Hero Discovered" a B1-series battle droid R0-GR says "I have a bad feeling about this" just before Rowan Freemaker grabs the piece of Kybersaber. **In "The Mines of Graballa" Rowan says "Come on, I have a good feeling about this" to R0-GR. **In "Peril on Kashyyyk" R0-GR again says "I have a bad feeling about this" while loading the translator program into itself. **In "The Maker of Zoh" Rowan says "I have a good feeling about this" after arriving to planet Zoh. *Star Wars: Jedi Temple Challenge **In Episode 8, AD-3 says this line when Purple Team (Grant & Arthur) arrive at the Power Pull obstacle where Arthur has one foot on the starting platform and his other foot on the sled which is a couple of feet away from the starting platform. *In LEGO Star Wars: The Padawan Menace, Han says these lines after he, Yoda and Cody crash-land on Hoth while pursuing a battle droid which was escaping with the Republic's Secret Battle Plans. *In The LEGO Star Wars Holiday Special, Rey Skywalker says "I have a good feeling about this" before jumping into space-time portal which leads to time just before the Battle of Endor and on Death Star II. *In LEGO Star Wars Terrifying Tales Poe Dameron says "I have a bad feeling..." before being interrupted by BB-8 who obviously did not want to hear something like that, to which Poe replied indignantly "It's still worth mentioning!". *Star Wars: Visions **In "Tatooine Rhapsody" Jay says "I got a bad feeling about this." while they are trying to escape Boba Fett with their ship. **In "THE TWINS", R-DUO told Karre while escaping the Gemini-class Star Destroyer in the X-Wing that he have a bad feeling about this. **In The Village Bride, the Padawan F told the bride when she asked her if she can feel Magina... "If you can also feel it, I'm sure you'll understand... I have a bad feeling about this." **In "T0-B1," C03 told T0-B1 that "I have a bad feeling about this" in binary, since Professor Mitaka told T0-B1 to approach the basement is forbidden. **In "The Elder," the Jedi Master Tajin Crosser tells his Padawan Dan G'vash, "But I got a bad feeling about this." about The Elder and his starship. **In "The Spy Dancer," an alien character says "I have a bad feeling about this" in a foreign language, translated by English subtitles. *In the original Star Tours ride, RX-24 says, "I have a very bad feeling about this!" just before taking the StarSpeeder 3000 into a large comet.Star Tours *In Star Tours: The Adventures Continue, C-3PO says the line as the ship approaches the Death Star.Star Tours: The Adventures Continue *In Star Wars: Rise of the Resistance, Lieutenant Bek says "I have a bad feeling about this..." as the Resistance transport Cargo vessel TR141 fully docks into the First Order Star Destroyer, the Finalizer.Star Wars: Rise of the Resistance *The phrase is heard in the first Star Wars parody, Hardware Wars. That film was made soon after the release of Episode IV, and the phrase was not noticeable back then.Hardware Wars *A working title for It's A Trap! was "We Have a Bad Feeling About This," an obvious parody of this phrase. *In Robot Chicken: Star Wars, George Lucas says "I have a bad feeling about this" before being mobbed by fans at a convention.Robot Chicken: Star Wars Note: The following lists are in alphabetical order. *In Indiana Jones Adventure, the Disneyland attraction, it is one of the lines uttered by Indiana Jones as he over the riders' transport. The line is spoken as a giant boulder begins rolling toward the Jeep. *In Indiana Jones and the Fate of Atlantis, a 1992 point-and-click adventure game, inside the U-Boat (Team Path) when a player forces Indy to go down the bridge twice, Indy says "I've got a bad feeling about this..." before stepping down the ladder and meeting the demise. This mishap results a game over screen. *In Loom, Bobbin (the main character) says, "I have a very bad feeling about this." *In Radioland Murders, the 1994 film, a character says the phrase. *In Young Indiana Jones and the Attack of the Hawkmen, the 1995 TV movie, Indy is ordered to Berlin in a mission to bribe Anthony Fokker to work for the French. Just before he boards a biplane for Berlin, Charles Nungesser&mdash;who will be flying the plane&mdash;informs Indy that he must parachute into Germany. To this, Indy says the phrase. Indiana also says the line in the episode "Austria, March 1917." *Indy says it near the end of the film Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull, just before the room starts spinning and making strange noises. *In Lego: The Adventures of Clutch Powers, Skelly tells this to Bones after the castle they were looking for disappeared. *In Aladdin: the Series, during the episode called "The Hunted," Jasmine says the words as the gang are in the marketplace at night while they start to disappear one by one. during the episodes. *In The Apothecary Diaries: **In Season 1 Episode 17 titled "A Jaunt Around Town", Maomao says "I have such a bad feeling about this" after she is forced to put on a disguise. **In Season 1 Episode 23 titled "Balsam and Woodsorrel", Jinshi says "I have a very bad feeling about this" when MaoMao challenges Lakan to a game of Chinese Checkers. *In Azur Lane: **In Season 1 Episode 7 titled "Deadline: For Determination, for Love" Massachusetts says the line "Not good I have a really bad feeling about this one" before a large naval battle occurs. **In Season 1 Episode 9 titled "Hope: Light Shines Through The Darkness" Akashi says the line "I have a bad feeling about-" Before being interrupted by Javelin. **In Season 1 Episode 12 titled "Blue Waters: May The Azur Lanes Bless You" Cleveland says the line "Not good, I've got a bad feeling about this" after seeing the super weapon Orochi. The rest of the episode then plays out similarly to the attack on the Death Star with Enterprise (the main character of the show) having to shoot the Orochi's weak point before it can destroy Azur Lane's base. *In Batman: The Animated Series, during the episode "Birds of a Feather," Veronica Vreeland says, "I got a bad feeling about this." *In , during the episode "I'm the Main Character," Leafy says "I got a bad feeling about this." when she walks through the Evil Forest with Needle. *In Beyblade X, in Episode 37 titled "Unpredictable", Taisho Sushiya says, "Why do I suddenly have this bad feeling about this?" before Jaxon's match against Rex. *In Darkwing Duck, during the episode "Dead Duck," Darkwing says this as Megavolt heads in to Andy's Anvil Factory. *In Digimon: The Movie, Tai says, "I got a bad feeling about this, Agumon." *In Dragon Ball Super: Broly, Bardock says the line when in a spaceship returning to Planet Vegeta on Frieza's orders. *In Dragon Ball Z **In Season 1 Episode 4, titled "Piccolo's Trump Card! Gohan is a Crybaby!" in The Japanese version and "Piccolo's Plan!" in the English Dub (S1E4), Bulma, who is riding in a jet with Krillin and Roshi, says: "I have a terrible feeling about all of this," while Goku and Piccolo fight Raditz. **In Season 1 Episode 25, titled "Tien goes all out!" in the Japanese sub and "Sacrifice" in the English Dub, Goku, going through SnakeWay, says: "Dammit! I have a bad feeling about this!" *In Family Guy, in Season 5, Episode 7 titled "Chick Cancer" Peter Griffin says "I have a bad feeling about Suicidey" while watching a movie with Lois. *In Fullmetal Alchemist: Brotherhood, in Episode 2 titled "The First Day" while riding on a train, Edward says "Al, I think got a good feeling about this one" *In Futurama, during the episode "A Pharaoh to Remember," Philip Fry says, "Call it a hunch, but I have a bad feeling about this!" *In a Disney Goofy cartoon "How to take care of your yard," at the winter season, it starts snowing and Goofy says, "I got a bad feeling about this." *In Hot Wheels: AcceleRacers: Ignition, after the drivers enter the Storm Realm, "Lani Tam" says "(sigh) I have a bad feeling about this." And "Gig" says "Computers don't have feelings". *In Love, Chunibyo & Other Delusions! In Season 1 Episode 3 titled "The Heretical&hellip; Pigtailed Girl", Yuta says "I have a bad feeling about this" after Rikka makes a phone call. *In Megaman NT Warrior (Season 2, Axess, Stream, Beast and Beats+), Maylu Sakurai and Roll EXE. both say "I have a bad feeling about this." *In Mickey Mouse (2013), during the episode "Wonders of the Deep" Donald Duck, while he and Mickey Mouse were underwater, says "I have a bad feeling about this." *In My Deer Friend Nokotan, in Episode 1 titled "Girl Meets Deer" Torako Koshi says "A transfer student? I have a bad feeling about this" just before Noko Shikanoko destroys the classroom's door. *In Neon Genesis Evangelion, during the episode "A Human Work," Misato says, "Talk about hot. I've got a bad feeling about this" as she enters the malfunctioning robot, Jet Alone. *In the Ninjago episode "Farewell the Sea", Cole tells Wu the reason to bring the team back. "I've got a bad feeling about this Vengestone stuff." *In the Numberblocks episode "Block Star" (which is a parody of the whole Star Wars franchise) Twelve says "I've got a bad feeling about this" when she saw the Block Star's force fields. *In Patlabor: The New Files, during the episode "The Woman Who Came from the Stars," Mikiyasu Shinshi quotes the line verbatin. *In Phineas and Ferb, during the episode "The Chronicles of Meap," after Ferb parodies Obi-Wan Kenobi by saying "That's no cloud, it's a space station," Phineas says "I have a really good feeling about this." *In Pokémon: Advanced Battle, during the episode "Gaining Groudon" May says "Oh, no. I have a bad feeling about this." *In Rapunzel's Tangled Adventure, during the series finale "Plus Est En Vous" Eugene says "I have a bad feeling about this" after Rapunzel said she had an idea. *In The Real Ghostbusters, it is said in the episode "Adventures in Slime and Space." *In Regular Show, during the episode "Meet the Seer", Skips (voiced by Mark Hamill) says the line as he approaches a planet in a spaceship. *In Sonic the Hedgehog, during the episode "The Doomsday Project," when Robotnik assumes that he will have Sonic falling for his final trap, Sniverly says the line when he is aware and sure that Robotnik's plan will fail. *In Wunderkind Little Amadeus, in Episode 4 titled "Kidnappers" Devilius says "I've got a good feeling about things" when things were going according to plan. *In : **In Season 1 Episode 9 titled "Doggy Duel!" Meowdestar says "I have a very bad feeling about this" before Maddox starts a duel with Graves. **In Season 1 Episode 19 titled "The Big Boss" Yuhi says "I've got a pretty bad feeling about this" after he hears that Ronron has never lost a duel. *In Yugioh Sevens: **In Season 2 Episode 24 "Tiger Trouble" When Luke and Yuga go off in search of Nana, Kaizo says "I've have a bad feeling about this". **In Season 2 Episode 25 "Monster Reborn!" Luke asks himself "Why do I have a bad feeling about this?" After Swirls starts acting strange. *In Yugioh Zexal Season 1 Episode 17 "It's in the Cards Part 1" Bronk Stone says "I've got a bad feelin' about this" after entering the fortune teller's mansion. *In Ready Player One by Ernest Cline, the character Art3mis says the line before an enormous battle, after a reference to Return of the Jedi is made. *In Left 4 Dead: The Sacrifice, a web comic, Louis says, "I got a bad feeling about this." *In World of Warcraft comic series, Thrall, the Warchief of the Horde, says "But I have a bad feeling about it." *In 2001: A Space Odyssey (released prior to Episode IV), computer HAL 9000 says "I have a bad feeling about it." Additionally, astronaut Frank Poole says (with regard to HAL), "I've got a bad feeling about him," while speaking with fellow astronaut Dave Bowman. Star Wars is known to have taken considerable influence from this film, so it is plausible to consider this the origin of the phrase. *The Aliens, the line is used twice when the marines are in an orbital drop above Acheron LV-426. PFC Frost says, "I'm telling you, man, I've got a bad feeling about this drop," to which PFC Crowe responds, "You always say that, Frost. You always say, 'I've got a bad feeling about this drop.'" *In Blade II, Scud (Norman Reedus) says, "I have a bad feeling about this, B." *In The Long Kiss Goodnight, Samuel L. Jackson's character says "I've got a bad feeling about this" before he enters a train station. *In The Monster of Phantom Lake from indie filmmaker Christopher R. Mihm (a noted Star Wars fan), the phrase appears three times in his award-winning debut movie, and once in its sequel, It Came From Another World. *In Reservoir Dogs, Mr. Orange says "I have a very bad feeling about it." *In 24, during episode 16 of season 1, after Robert Ellis is murdered in New Orleans, interrupting his phone call, Jack calls David Palmer and tells him, "I have to be honest with you. I've got a very bad feeling about this." Jack says he assumes Ellis is dead or he would have answered the phone. *In The Big Bang Theory, episode 12, Leonard says "A bad feeling I have about this, hmm" in a Yoda voice. Yoda has never said the line in any official media. *In Castle episode "The Double Down," Richard Castle says, "I got a bad feeling about this." *Criminal Minds **In the episode "North Mammon," Jason Gideon says, "I've got a bad feeling about this one." **In the episode "The Eyes Have It," David Rossi says, "I got a bad feeling about this guy." *In DC's Legends of Tomorrow episode "Marooned," Jefferson Jackson says, "To quote every 'Star Wars' movie ever made, 'I've got a bad feeling about this.'" *In Fringe episode "Lysergic Acid Diethylamide," Peter Bishop says, "Walter... I'm getting a bad feeling about this." *In Kamen Rider Decade, episode 24, Shitari says, "I have a bad feeling about this" when he sees Kamen Rider Diend. *In Lost, during the fourth season, a character says the line before being ambushed and killed. Later, in the series finale, just before the opening title card, Hurley says, "I've got a bad feeling about this," shortly after remarking that the enigmatic Jacob is "worse than Yoda." *In Melissa and Joey, during the episode "Oh Brother," when Joey discovers that the man whom Melissa is dating may be her half-brother, he compares the situation to Luke and Leia. When she points out that in the analogy, Joey would be Han Solo, he takes it as a compliment and then says, "I got a bad feeling about this." *In The Mighty Boosh, Bollo the gorilla's catchphrase is "I've got a bad feeling about this." *In NCIS episode "Sharif Returns," Anthony DiNozzo says, "I've got a bad feeling about this." *In Power Rangers Ninja Storm episode "The Samurai's Journey Part 1" Shane says "I've got a bad feeling about this!" *In The Shield, resident nerd of the Strike Team Ronnie Gardocki utters this before a money exchange. *In Stargate SG-1 season 9 episode "Avalon," Mitchell says: "You ever get a bad feeling about something?" Then, in the season 10 episode "Family Ties," Vala says this to her father. *In Ace Attorney, the phrase is used many times. *In Azur Lane, the phrase is used many times by multiple characters. *In Battlefield: Bad Company, a soldier called Sweetwater says the phrase twice during the first mission. *In Chrono Trigger, Lucca says it in a sewer, before crossing a door. *In Crimson Skies: High Road to Revenge for Xbox, one of the characters repeats this phrase a few times. *In Doom 3, Frank Cinders says the phrase in his PDA message. Since in the sentence prior he uses the word "droid," it is unlikely to be a coincidence. *In Dragon Age: Origins, it is one of the dialogue options of the Human Noble origin story when talking with Eleanor Cousland. *In Final Fantasy VI a man says the phrase right before an apocalyptic event within the game. Banon also says it if you let Imperial soldiers get to him in the multi-party battle. *In Final Ninja Zero from Nitrome, during level 20, when Takeshi gets to the first force field, Lady Snow Fox says in a message, "You go find the generator that is powering this force field, I'll stay here. I've got a bad feeling we might be heading into a trap." *In Fire Emblem for the Game Boy Advance, Hector of Ostia says, "Look at the size of them. I've got a bad feeling about this" in reference to a trio of dragons that emerge from the Dragon's Gate shortly after Nergal's death. *In Forza Horizon 4, the line is an unlockable option for the Quick Chat feature. *In Genshin Impact, during the first mission, protagonist's companion Paimon says: "Paimon has a bad feeling about this" after seeing a red light. *In Girls' Frontline, the phrase is used numerous times. *In , like it's predecessor, the phrase is used numerous times. *In Grand Theft Auto IV, in the Tunnel Of Death mission, this phrase is pronounced by a policeman who is walking towards the truck that the protagonist has parked. *In Half-Life, security guards sometimes use the phrase. *In Halo: Combat Evolved, a UNSC Marine says "I got a bad feelin' about this..." while Sergeant Johnson replies: "Boy, you always got a bad feeling about something," only for their platoon to be ambushed by the Flood. In Halo 2, the same conversation is repeated between two Unggoy soldiers as an easter egg, who say "Me have bad feeling about this..." "You always have bad feeling! You had bad feeling about morning food nipple!" This is also referencing Aliens, and is a reference within a reference. *In , the line is said by a Confederate solider. *In Honkai: Star Rail, before going to sleep in the Hotel on Belabog, March 7th says "It was a long a day today. All I need is a hot shower and a good night's sleep". A dialog option to respond to this is "I've got a bad feeling..." *In Horizon: Forbidden West phrase "I've got a bad feeling about this" was said by Aloy at the beginning of the game, when she returned to the city of Meridian. *In Kingdom Hearts when you go to Halloweentown, after Jack Skellington finds Sally and asks for her memory, she says, "Jack, I have a bad feeling about this." *In Mario and Luigi: Bowser's Inside Story, after Bowser has defeated Dark Fawful, and Starlow (called Chippy) talks to Bowser about Fawful having some of the Dark Star's Dark Power, one of Starlow's lines to Bowser is "Ooh... I have a bad feeling about this." *In Mass Effect, the phrase is uttered often and by different characters. *In Mega Man X5, while Zero begins to wonder why he's not infected with the Maverick virus, he says "I have a bad feeling about this." *In Metal Gear Solid 2: Sons of Liberty, a character says "I have a bad feeling about this," causing another character to say, "Do you think it's a trap?" *In Neverwinter Nights: Hordes of the Underdark, one of the henchmen says upon entering a room with a sarcophagus, "The stench of evil hangs upon this place. I have a bad feeling about that sarcophagus." The sarcophagus in question spawns a mummy lord if opened. *In Quake 4, Medic Egan from Wolf squad says the phrase during the first level aboard Hannibal. *In Quest for Glory I, when you wander into the brigands' lair, it says, as the hero sees six armed brigands, "You have a bad feeling about this place." Then five more pop out and the text says, "You have an even worse feeling about this place." *In Red Dead Redemption, the line is often heard. *In Resident Evil 4, Leon S. Kennedy says that when he first sees a signpost. *In Reverse: 1999 **In 5TH05 (5th mission Chapter 5), Regulus says: "I have a bad feeling about this" after the Gorgon that attacked her ship, the APPLe II, disappeared. Shortly after she says the line, the Gorgon reappears and tears the ship apart. Later on in the chapter, after being imprisoned, Regulus makes an indirect reference to Atton Rand. **During the event Notes on Shuori, Bessmert asks if the group needs a break to which Krolik replies: "I have a bad feeling. Instead of a break, we need a new direction. Back home, for example". A reference to the force is later made. *In RuneScape, one of the pre-selected QuickChat phrases is "I've got a bad feeling about this." *In Shining Force II, during King Galam's escape in the light tubes, BOWIE says it. *In , during the crawling text mission recap prior to the King Boom Boo boss fight, Knuckles says it while being spooked by the room he entered. *In Sonic Chronicles: The Dark Brotherhood sometimes Tails says "I have a bad feeling about this." *In Sonic Colors, in the Wii version, Sonic says about feeling the ground shaking under his feet to see plums of dust rising and rumble tumble and Wisps running for their lives, which is why he has a bad feeling. In the DS version, Sonic has a bad feeling about his encounter with a Nega-Wisp. Sonic also first said the phrase in Sonic and the Secret Rings. *In Sonic Heroes, in the beginning of Team Chaotix's story, after Vector the Crocodile and Charmy Bee got a walkie talkie from a package, Espio the Chameleon says "I've got a bad feeling about this..." He also says that phrase in Shadow the Hedgehog. *In Sonic Lost World, Tails shouts Ackbar's line to Sonic "It's a trap", before the fox himself was kidnapped by the Deadly Six. *In Star Fox 64, Peppy says "I've got a bad feeling about this, Fox." at "Aquas" level, He also says it after warning Fox to be careful, in the Super Smash Bros. series game. *In StarCraft II: Wings of Liberty, Karass says "I have a somewhat unfavorable premonition about this" when repeatedly clicked on. Also, Jim Raynor says "I have a bad feeling about this" in the first mission when approaching Backwater Station. *In Starsiege, the character Harabec Weathers (voiced by Mark Hamill) says "...I've got a bad feeling about this!" *In Super Mario Sunshine, at the start of the gameplay of the game, Princess Peach says, to Mario, "Be Careful. I have a bad feeling about this..." *In Time and Eternity, Lucy says, "I have a bad feeling about this" after she notices that people are staring at her and Linus. *In , 9Volt says, "Uh, I have a bad feeling about this" after Wario notices that there's something in the minecart. *In Yu-Gi-Oh! Duel Links, the character Akiza Izinski has the line available as a selectable phrase during a duel. *In a Fortnite X Star Wars live event, "Death Star Sabotage," it is said by John Jones. *In Doctor Who audio drama "Sword of Orion" from Big Finish, Ike says "I'm getting a bad feeling about this trip" to Grash in reference to their mission to scrap an apparently deactivated spacecraft which is later revealed to carry a horde of Cybermen. Writer Nick Briggs was influenced by Star Wars when writing the story, so the insertion of the famous line is deliberate. Also in the story, the word "droid" is used, the Cybermen's ship is on numerous occasions referred to as a "stardestroyer," and the main local hub of society and commerce is called Garazone, a deliberate phonic corruption of Coruscant, although in its characteristics Garazone is more like Mos Eisley. *In Timon and Pumbaa's Virtual Safari on the Special Edition Release of The Lion King, on the boat tour, Pumbaa want the kid audience to pick left on the second decision, but Timon asks why, and Pumbaa replies "I've got a good feeling about it." }} Category:Star Wars culture