678
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Star_Forge
Star Forge
24124

The Star Forge was a giant automated shipyard, designed to create the most powerful army of all time. It was constructed by the Rakatan Infinite Empire in 30,000 BBY, five thousand years before the rise of the Galactic Republic. The Star Forge drew energy and matter from a nearby star which, when combined with the power of the Force, was capable of creating an endless supply of ships, droids, and other war materiel. The Rakata, also known as "The Builders," constructed the massive space station through the use of slaves from many subject worlds including Belsavis, Corellia, Coruscant, Dantooine, Drall, Duro, Kashyyyk, Manaan, Selonia, Sleheyron, Malastare, and Tatooine. This technological marvel came at a terrible cost, as the Rakata were by nature a cruel and savage species deeply enmeshed in the dark side of the Force. The Star Forge began feeding off these negative traits inherent in its creators. As a result the Star Forge became an immense tool of dark side power. The Star Forge, now a fusion of technology and dark side energies, began corrupting the Rakata in order to gain the immense power it required to operate itself and ultimately caused the collapse of the Rakata Empire. Aware of the semi-living superweapon's ability to corrupt its users, Darth Revan limited his contact with the dark side artifact to avoid allowing it to control him as it did the Rakatans. His apprentice Darth Malak, on the other hand, planned to explore deeper into the Star Forge after disposing of his Master. thumb|left|150px|The Star Forge being constructed The size of the Star Forge was extraordinary for its time. Capital ships could easily move between the gaps of the three "fins" that radiated outwards from the central spherical structure. The fins extended downward to draw matter from Abo, the star of the Lehon system, using it to produce weapons and armament. While having few apparent docks for capital ships, many fighter craft and smaller freighters were able to dock at bays located on each of these fins. Externally, the Star Forge possessed very little defensive weaponry, save for several turbolaser batteries positioned near its hangar bays. Instead it depended entirely on its massive ship production capability as a means to defend itself. Internally, it was also capable of manufacturing thousands of battle droids for defense, and possessed numerous heavy blast doors that ran throughout the entire factory. It was also protected by a deadly ship-disabling energy field projected from Lehon's Temple of the Ancients on the Rakata homeworld nearby. The field caused ships to malfunction and be captured in the planet's gravity well, sending them spiraling down to the world below. thumb|200px|The Star Forge could be located with the [[Star Maps.]] During the Rakata's civilization collapse, multiple tribes raided the Star Forge's storehouses and stole whatever they could before fleeing to the Rakatan Archipelago ahead of a nuclear war between the warrior and priest caste.The Unknown Regions As was the case with all apparent products of Rakatan dark side energy engineering, the Star Forge managed to survive several tens of thousands of years idling and without an operational crew by relying on its built-in automated repair systems. This trait was replicated in certain artifacts, such as the Star Maps. The Rakatan Builders destroyed the Star Maps during the collapse of their Empire, but these slowly repaired themselves with the Star Forge's technology. While the data in each one was incomplete by the time the reformed Revan discovered them, their combined information was enough to reveal the location of the Star Forge. As an artifact of the dark side, the Star Forge corrupted those who used it, feeding its desire for death. Ajunta Pall hinted that the early Dark Lords of the Sith knew about and used the Star Forge. The Sith Emperor sought after the Star Forge. When Revan and Malak visited Dromund Kaas after the Mandalorian Wars and fell under the influence of the Sith Emperor, he bid them to find it for him. However, Revan and Malak broke free of the Sith Emperor,The Old Republic: Revan and after discovering the Star Maps leading to the location of the ancient dark space station, decided to use the Star Forge to create their own Sith Empire. After having his memory erased by the Dantooine Enclave Council, Revan was directed to rediscover the location of the Star Forge, while it was under Malak's control who used it to strengthen the Sith fleet with a massive number of ships. Revan boarded the Star Forge to confront and kill Malak. It was destroyed at the end of the Jedi Civil War (3956 BBY) by a Republic fleet aided by Bastila Shan's battle meditation. Immediately prior to his defeat at the hands of Revan, Malak attempted to harness a heretofore unexplored property of the Star Forge. Using Jedi captured from the destroyed enclave on Dantooine, Malak was able to incorporate them into the Star Forge itself, which was seemingly capable of harnessing the power of Force-sensitives and channeling the power into a particular subject&mdash;in this case, Malak himself. The Jedi in the Star Forge were unable to become one with the Force while in this state, and Malak could use the energy inside the nearly lifeless bodies to regain his strength. The drained Jedi were apparently killed in the process. Revan sabotaged the system during his battle with Malak on the Star Forge Viewing Platform and it was subsequently destroyed along with the rest of the Star Forge. thumb|right|200px|The destruction of the Star Forge in [[3956 BBY]] }} After its destruction, the Star Forge fell into obscurity within the galactic community. The Republic, at the urging of the Jedi, felt it was unnecessary and detrimental to the rebuilding of the Republic to have knowledge of the previously unknown Rakata resurface. In their opinion, a reemergence of a culture that had once enslaved much of the known Galaxy would incite panic or fear. As a result, the Lehon system&mdash;with the wreckage from the final battle of the Jedi Civil War, including the remains of the Star Forge&mdash;were quarantined. Only scant and obscure mention of the system and the Star Forge were known. Sometime after 3956 BBY, Revan led a group of Ongree-slaves to a complex on Nar Shaddaa. He gave them the Infinite Engine, which at the time, only was the size of a fingernail, but later grew to the size of an Ongree. Revan taught them to sacrifice their dead bodies and dedicate their newborn to the machine, and it would give them food, water, shelter and droids to defend them in return. Just like the Star Forge, the engine could create almost anything from almost nothing. In his diary, Revan claimed that sooner or later, they would create their own galaxies. In 1000 BBY, Darth Bane had begun traveling the galaxy looking for information about the Sith predecessors to the Brotherhood of Darkness. His inquiries took him to the Valley of the Dark Lords on Korriban and then to the Lehon system while seeking information regarding Revan and Malak. During his approach to the Lehon system, he saw the still untouched remains of the Star Forge and the wreckage of the final battle. Large pieces of metal had fused together, creating a ring-like construct around the planet Lehon. The remaining pieces littered the system similar to an asteroid field. Two scaled down versions of the Star Forge were constructed by the Rakatan remnants in the Rakatan Archipelago. The Elders of Makatak and Tulpaa sought to reclaim the lost glories of the Infinite Empire by tinkering with ancient Rakatan technology in an attempt to rediscover their secrets. Both tribes fought over the Archipelago's resources and competed to complete the construction of their respective forges with the hopes that they would supply them with an endless supply of battle machines like it did for their ancestors. Elder Ruthic of Tulpaa was a Rakata who manifested Force-sensitivity. She unintentionally freed Raspir, the Sith pure-blood court magician of King Adas, from a mind trap with her unique abilities. Raspir would advise Ruthic on how to bend the creation engines of the Star Forge to her will. It was rumored that the Sorcerers of Rhand of the Perann Nebula possessed multiple Rakatan forges. thumb|left|150px|A [[Hologram/Legends|hologram of the Star Forge.]] Deck 1 was a hangar in the Star Forge. During the Battle of Rakata Prime, the redeemed Jedi Revan, aboard the Ebon Hawk, landed on Deck 1. There, several Jedi told him to find Bastila Shan, but were soon attacked by Dark Jedi. Revan helped defeat the Dark Jedi, and continued deeper into Deck 1 until Darth Malak sent droids to kill the Jedi on board. Revan defeated the droids and more Dark Jedi, before proceeding into Deck 2. When Malak learned that Revan was on board, Malak sent all available troops to fight Revan. After defeating Malak on the Viewing Platform, Revan returned to Deck 1, where he informed the crew of the Ebon Hawk that Malak was defeated. Revan escaped the Star Forge aboard the Ebon Hawk. Deck 2 had an elevator leading up to the Command Center. Although the Star Forge was an artifact of the dark side, a console on Deck 2 could create light sided Star Forge Robes. Shortly after the redeemed Jedi Revan entered Deck 2, Darth Malak was told that Revan was on board. In response, Malak sent a garrison of Sith troopers and Dark Jedi to attack Revan. Malak knew that his Sith underlings would be no match for Revan, but they would be able to slow Revan down, giving Malak enough time to set up the Star Forge's defenses, which were infinite battle droids constantly created by the Star Forge. Revan defeated the garrison, and took the elevator to the Command Center. Before the final battle, Revan managed to use the unique powers of the Star Forge to construct a set of robes that would distinctly power Revan to greater heights in the Force than Malak even knew was possible. Located on the Star Forge, the Command Center had elevators which connected to Deck 2, and the Viewing Platform. It contained a large hologram of the Star Forge itself. After being turned to the dark side of the Force by Darth Malak, Bastila Shan used her battle meditation from within the Command Center, to aid the Sith fleet in the Battle of Rakata Prime. However, Revan fought his way into the Command Center, and, after a lightsaber duel, was able to convert Bastila back to the Jedi. She then used her powers to help the Republic Navy, and turned the tide of battle in the Republic's favor. The Command Center was ultimately destroyed along with the rest of the Star Forge at the conclusion of the battle. Built near the summit of the Star Forge, the Viewing Platform was used to observe what was going on outside the space station. It was accessible via turbolift from the Command Center. During the Jedi Civil War, Darth Malak brought Jedi he had nearly killed on Dantooine to the Viewing Platform, placing their bodies into cells to prevent them from becoming one with the Force and augmenting his own dark power. When the redeemed Revan confronted Malak on the Viewing Platform, Malak used the captured souls to replenish his life, killing them in the process. To defeat Malak, Revan allowed the Jedi to become one with the Force, and mortally wounded his former apprentice. Malak died on the platform, which was destroyed shortly thereafter, along with the rest of the Star Forge, following Revan's escape. The Star Forge first appeared in the video game Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic, published by BioWare in 2003. In development of the game, LucasArts gave BioWare feedback on the Star Forge's design and said that it was a little too close to the Death Star. In the non-canon dark-side ending of Knights of the Old Republic, the reborn Darth Revan and his apprentice Bastila trick the Republic into attacking the Star Forge in order to distract Malak; once they arrived, Bastila and Darth Revan fought throughout the station to the command center, where Revan faced Malak's three most powerful Dark Jedi Masters (each with different robes). Malak promises that the one who delivers the killing blow to Revan will become his new apprentice. Revan and Bastila fought and killed all three of them. Bastila remains in the command center in order to turn the tide of the battle in favor of the Sith fleet, while Darth Revan fights his way to the observation platform, where he confronts and brutally slays his former apprentice Malak and the Sith fleet destroys the Republic fleet. During the aforementioned duel between Revan and Malak however, it is also possible for the player to fuel themselves with the power harnessed captive Jedi in the same fashion to outdo Malak during the battle, until there are no more left for him to harness from. Darth Revan returns to Lehon, where the celebrating Sith officially recognize him as the Dark Lord of the Sith. Revan then takes control of the Star Forge, and he's poised to unleash the Sith fleet on the Core systems. However, Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic II: The Sith Lords, if set to Revan having ended up on the dark side, reveals that they experienced an increasing number of visions of what they'd seen of the True Sith between the Mandalorian Wars and the Jedi Civil War. They then abandoned the conquest of the Republic and instead ventured into the Unknown Regions to face this threat, nominally leaving Bastila Shan in charge of their empire. Without a dark-side user strong enough to use it without dying in the process, the Star Forge went dormant.Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic II: The Sith Lords There was also a deleted scene where the Star Forge was to fire a beam that could control gravity. This beam was to be shot at one of the Republic ships and drag it into a Hammerhead-class cruiser, destroying both. thumb|400px|Star Forge construction over Lehon *Dawn of the Jedi: Force Storm 5 *Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic *The Old Republic: Revan *Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic II: The Sith Lords *Star Wars: The Old Republic *Star Wars: The Old Republic: Shadow of Revan *Darth Bane: Path of Destruction *Darth Plagueis *Republic 68 *Star Wars: Galaxy of Heroes *"The Betrayal of Darth Revan" *The New Essential Guide to Weapons and Technology *The New Essential Chronology *Jedi vs. Sith: The Essential Guide to the Force *Knights of the Old Republic Campaign Guide *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia *The Essential Atlas *Star Wars: The Official Starships & Vehicles Collection 28 *The Unknown Regions *The Journal of Master Gnost-Dural *Star Wars: Dawn of the Jedi 0 *The Essential Guide to Warfare *The Essential Reader's Companion *Suns of Fortune *Star Wars: Imperial Handbook: A Commander's Guide }} Category:Battlestations Category:Dark side artifacts Category:Infinite Empire technology Category:Lehon system locations Category:Rakatan space stations Category:Shipyard space stations Category:Space station superweapons Category:Starships of Darth Revan's Sith Empire