758
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Star_Wars:_The_Thrawn_Trilogy
Star Wars: The Thrawn Trilogy
22007

Star Wars: The Thrawn Trilogy is a Legends adult-fiction novel series from author Timothy Zahn. It consists of Heir to the Empire (1991), Dark Force Rising (1992), and The Last Command (1993), which were published by Bantam Spectra. The trilogy is set in 9 ABY, five years after the events of Star Wars: Episode VI Return of the Jedi, and it chronicles the campaign of the eponymous Grand Admiral Thrawn. *Heir to the Empire *Heir to the Empire audiobook *Dark Force Rising *Dark Force Rising audiobook *The Last Command *The Last Command audiobook The Empire has withered to a quarter of its former size as the New Republic continues to consolidate its hold on the galaxy. From the Unknown Regions emerges a new Imperial commander, a mysterious tactical genius named Grand Admiral Thrawn, with an elaborate and grandiose plan to destroy the New Republic. Commanding the Star Destroyer Chimaera with Captain Pellaeon, Thrawn begins an intricate stratagem built form pieces of information gleaned from across the galaxy. From a data raid in the Obroa-skai system, he obtains the locations of one of the Emperor's secret storehouses: Mount Tantiss on Wayland. From the forests of Myrkr, he procures a peculiar Force-repelling creature called an ysalamir. With an ysalamir carried in a specialized backpack, Thrawn arrives on Wayland immune to the Force abilities of Joruus C'Baoth, the mad Jedi clone guarding the Emperor's safehouse. C'baoth figures into Thrawn's plans – the loyal Force-sensitive can help coordinate Thrawn's fighting forces to a supernatural degree. The Grand Admiral offers the insane Jedi the promise of new apprentices, since Luke Skywalker endeavors to rebuild the Jedi Order. On a New Republic diplomatic mission to Bimmisaari, shadowy alien assailants – Thrawn's Noghri death commandos – attack Luke and Leia in a failed kidnapping attempt. Wary of such near misses, a pregnant Leia hides out on Kashyyyk with Chewbacca and his fellow Wookiees as protectors. They defend her from another strike, capturing one of the Noghri, Khabarakh, in the process. Leia is stunned when the Noghri proclaims fealty to her upon discovering – through his powerful sense of smell – that she is biologically related to Darth Vader. The Noghri venerate Vader as a savior. Elsewhere in the galaxy, when Luke narrowly escapes an Imperial ambush, he is found stranded in space by smugglers Talon Karrde and Mara Jade. Mara is a tight-lipped, intensely focused woman who has been with Karrde's organization for only six months. She seemingly sensed Luke's presence in interstellar space and ehxibits an intense hatred of the Jedi. Talon, realizing that Luke may be of great value, keeps him locked up in a supply shed at his headquarters on Myrkr, using the Force-blocking power of the ysalamiri against him. Han Solo and Lando Calrissian attempt to connect with Karrde's organization, and the courteous smuggler hosts them at Myrkr, all the while keeping Luke's imprisonment a secret from them. Luke escapes, however, and Mara gives pursuit. The two are forced to work side by side to survive the dangers of the forests. Here Luke discovers that Mara was once an Emperor's Hand and that the death Palpatine destroyed Mara's life. Thrawn's next major move in his campaign against the New Republic is an attack on the bustling shipyards of Sluis Van. Using specially modified mining equipment stolen from a complex owned by Lando Calrissian, Thrawn's intent is not to destroy the New Republic fleet – but rather to steal it. The mining equipment cuts into the control systems of the unscrewed ships, allowing Thrawn's troops to commandeer the vessels. Though the New Republic manages to thwart Thrawn's theft before he can complete it, the victory is costly as he leaves many vessels inoperable. Compounding the New Republic's difficulties are feats of political overreach and backstabbing from New Republic councilor Borsk Fey'la. Hoping to more firmly entrench Bothan political power at the expense of the rival Mon Calamari, Fey'la pounces upon evidence planted by the Empire asserting that Admiral Ackbar was guilty of embezzlement. Solo and Calrissian embark on a private investigation into these Bothan affairs, which leads them to New Cov. There allies of Fey'la have been helping Garm Bel Iblis fight his own private war against the Empire. Bel Iblis, a former Corellian Senator and cofounder of the Rebel Alliance, has a falling out with Mon Mothma. He never joined the New Republic, opting to wage war on his own. He has gradually come to realize that his pride and his refusal to cooperate have kept him from better helping the cause of freedom in the galaxy. While with Bel Iblis, Han and Lando find evidence that some of the Corellian Senator warships were Dreadnaughts from the fabled Katana fleet. The two-hundred-ship-strong task force vanished into hyperspace on its maiden voyage during the final decades of the Galactic Republic and has been the subject of treasure-seeking spacer legends ever since. Finding the fleet's heavily armed and armored warships would represent a huge boon to either the Empire or the New Republic. The ever resourceful Talon Karrde has a lead on the ships. He was once a protégé Jorj Car'das, a well-informed smuggler who knew of the fleet's location. Leia voyages to Honoghr, the poisoned homeworld of the Noghri, with her captive would-be assassin, Khabarakh. The honor-bound Noghri keep her hidden on the planet, despite visiting Imperials. Leia learns of the Noghri history: how their planet was poisoned during the Clone Wars by a starship crash, and how Darth Vader engineered a plan to save the planet's crippled agriculture to keep it habitable. Leia's inspection of the decon droids tasked with maintaining Honoghr's crops reveals a deep betrayal – the droids are poisoning the planet just enough to keep the Noghri subservient to the Empire. Meanwhile, Luke follows the rumors of a Jedi Knight ruling on distant Jomark and finds Joruus C'baoth there. C'baoth takes Skywalker under his wing, teaching Luke his distressing authoritarian view of Jedi in society. Luke comes to realize that Joruus is not touched by the dark side, but also insane. The hunt for the Katana fleet leads to a standoff between the New Republic and Imperial forces in the depths of space. The Empire succeeds in capturing most of the Dreadnaughts, while the New Republic discovers something just as disturbing – the stormtroopers who attacked them during the battle were freshly produced clones. Thrawn has the technology to build an army, and a new era of clone wars may fall upon the galaxy. At Mount Tantiss, Thrawn uses captured Spaarti cloning cylinder to rapidly produce clones. He uses ysalamiri in the cloning process to prevent the "clone madness" inherent in such fast production. Thrawn has also recovered a prototype cloaking device, which he uses to cleverly place Coruscant under siege. Thrawn has cloaked an unknown number of asteroids and released them above the planet's surface, thus preventing the capital from lowering its shields for fear of a devastating asteroid strike. While the New Republic is pinned beneath their own shields, Leia Organa gives birth to twins – Jacen and Jaina Solo. Even as infants, they exhibit strength in the Force. Rallying against Thrawn, and with intelligence offered by Mara Jade, the New Republic heroes infiltrate the Mount Tantiss storehouse on Wayland. Within a throne room built for the Emperor inside the mountain, the heroes are attacked by Joruus C'baoth. The Jedi madman releases a horrible weapon against Luke – a clone created from Skywalker's severed hand, recovered from Bespin years ago. In the end, Mara strikes down this duplicate. In killing an avatar of Skywalker, Mara releases some of her long-standing animosity toward Luke. Mara also succeeds in killing C'baoth, and explosives tear through the mountain, destroying Thrawn's cloning facility. At Bilgringi, site of an assault by Thrawn, his fleet is opposed by a coalition of smuggler vessels organized by Talon Karrde as well as New Republic space forces, including Rogue Squadron. Though Thrawn's tactical cunning once again gives him the advantage, he fails to predict once crucial attack. His Noghri bodyguard, Rukh, is now aware of the Imperial deception on his home world. He stabs Thrawn in the chest, killing the Imperial warlord. Without Thrawn to steer the assault, the Imperial advance collapses, and Pellaeon calls for a retreat. Perhaps the most influential work of the Expanded Universe, The Thrawn Trilogy successfully relaunched Star Wars published storytelling in 1991 and introduced characters such as Grand Admiral Thrawn, Talon Karrde, Mara Jade, Garm Bel Iblis, Borsk Fey'la, Jacen and Jaina Solo, and Gilad Pellaeon into the Star Wars pantheon. These heroes and villains would have long careers in the books that followed. The first novel of the cycle, Heir to the Empire, was honored with a twentieth anniversary edition in 2011, which included many behind the scenes annotations about the creation of the story. It was Heir that truly began building the Expanded Universe. Before that, Star Wars storytelling was spread across different media, without a determined mandate to construct a consistent setting. As a result, works published from 1977 to 1990 would often contradict one another. With Heir, Lucasfilm asked Zahn to coordinate his story with the world building being undertaken by the Star Wars: The Roleplaying Game publisher West End Games, thus ensuring his work fit into a larger whole. The collective title The Thrawn Trilogy did not come into effect until 1996. Before that, these three books were simply an untitled "3-Book Cycle," and for a time were branded as The Empire Trilogy. This trilogy underwent comic adaptations by Dark Horse in 1995-98, resulting in three six-issue series devoted to this story. When the first installment of the trilogy, Heir to the Empire was released in 1991, Lucasfilm Fan Club Magazine clarified in the same year that although the book was licensed and approved by Lucasfilm, Heir to the Empire is not George Lucas' story, nor the official continuation of the saga, but, rather, a story of Timothy Zahn's own imagination.The Lucasfilm Fan Club Magazine 14 The sourcebooks released for the novels in the following years also noted that all products taking place after Star Wars VI: Return of the Jedi, are the author's vision of what may have happened, and not the true fate of the characters.Heir to the Empire Sourcebook (Disclaimer)Dark Force Rising Sourcebook (Disclaimer)The Last Command Sourcebook (Disclaimer) In 1994, Howard Roffman, head of Lucas Licensing clarified, the books following the events of Episode VI were never intended to be the story of the planned Episode VII-IX.The Lucasfilm Fan Club Magazine 22 In A Guide to the Star Wars Universe, Second Edition, Revised and Expanded, published in 1994, the trilogy, alongside with books such as Splinter of the Mind's Eye, was noted to be “officially licensed source that may or may not agree with George Lucas' vision of the Star Wars galaxy” as opposed to “original Lucasfilm source.”'A Guide to the Star Wars Universe, Second Edition, Revised and Expanded Nevertheless, some continued to entertain the idea that the Thrawn Trilogy is the official continuation of Lucas' saga or it was based on Lucas' plans for Episode VII-IX, something that was addressed by Pablo Hidalgo in the 77th issue of Star Wars Insider in 2004: "That's not the case. Those works are the creation of their respective authors with the guidance of editors at Lucas Licensing. They are not, nor ever were, meant to be George Lucas' definitive vision of what happens next."'Star Wars Insider 77 After George Lucas started to work on the sequel trilogy and sold Lucasfilm to Disney in 2012, the novels alongside other Expanded Universe material was set into a separate continuity and rebranded as Legends in 2014. Numerous mentions are made in the trilogy to the Clone Wars that are contradicted by later portrayals in Episode II and the Clone Wars TV show (e.g., that the Clone Wars were waged by "the clone masters" in an attempt to "roll over the galaxy"). Additionally, the Dark Force (or Katana fleet) is said to have been created by the Republic to showcase their military might prior to the Clone Wars, which is contradicted by Episode II, where the Republic explicitly refuses to have a standing military prior to the purchase of the Grand Army of the Republic from the Kaminoans at the onset of the Clone Wars. The trilogy follows the campaign of Imperial Grand Admiral Thrawn, from the destruction of the Elomin task force to the Battle of Bilbringi. It also recounts the efforts of the Dark Jedi Joruus C'baoth and his efforts to claim Luke Skywalker, Leia Organa Solo, and her children as his apprentices. In addition, the Imperial capital world, Coruscant, was given its name by the trilogy and would later feature in the prequel films. A soundtrack for the trilogy had been in discussion by Robert Townson, the vice president of Varèse Sarabande, but did not go any further.The Secrets of Star Wars: Shadows of the Empire File:Thrawn_trilogy.jpg|Cover File:ThrawnTrilogy_Dutch.jpg|Dutch cover *A Guide to the Star Wars Universe, Second Edition, Revised and Expanded *The Secrets of Star Wars: Shadows of the Empire *Star Wars Year by Year: A Visual Chronicle *Star Wars Year by Year: A Visual Chronicle, Updated Edition *Star Wars Year By Year: A Visual History, Updated and Expanded Edition *The Art of Star Wars Rebels Category:Legends novel series