981
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Star_Wars:_Battlefront_II
Star Wars: Battlefront II
148388

|closed= |upc= |engine=Zero |genre=First-person shooter, third-person shooter |modes=Single player, multiplayer |ratings=ESRB: Teen (T) OFLC (AU): M PEGI: 12+ USK: 16 |platforms=PC, PlayStation 2, Xbox, PlayStation Portable, Mobile phone |series= |basegame= |expansions= |director= |producer= |designer= |programmer= |artist= |writer= |composer= |timeline= |prev=Battlefront |next=Battlefront III }} Star Wars: Battlefront II is the sequel to Star Wars: Battlefront. It is a high-selling Star Wars video game following the many adventures of several characters. The two games are very similar, as both revolve around troopers from various factions fighting in different locales. Battlefront II, however, includes elements and missions from Star Wars: Episode III Revenge of the Sith, as well as enhanced aspects of gameplay including space combat and the ability to play as "heroes", certain iconic Light Side/Dark Side characters from the Star Wars franchise, which previously only appeared as AI-controlled NPCs. The game's campaign mode is entitled Rise of the Empire. The story takes the player on different missions throughout the galaxy as part of the Galactic Empire's 501st Legion, also known as Vader's Fist, from the perspective of a clone trooper veteran. Other game modes include "Instant Action" where the player can fight on any battleground, land or space, and "Galactic Conquest" where the player fights as a certain faction for control of the galaxy. The game was released on November 1, 2005, for the PC, Mobile phone, Xbox, PlayStation Portable, and PlayStation 2, the same day that Revenge of the Sith was released on DVD. The first game and Battlefront II were re-released on March 14, 2024 as the Star Wars Battlefront Classic Collection. *Improved single-player experience that includes improved AI enemies and allies. A greater emphasis is also placed on storytelling through open-ended mission-based objectives. *Revamped Galactic Conquest mode that plays out on a galactic scale. *New space battles that allows the player to dogfight in X-wings, TIE Fighters, Jedi interceptors, Y-Wings, and several other starfighters. Players are also able to board capital ships and engage in combat with other enemies in different sections of the ships. *More than 12 new battlefields on land and in space, including many from Star Wars Episode III: Revenge of the Sith such as Utapau, Felucia and Mustafar. Also included are all-new classic trilogy locations including the Death Star interior, and Tantive IV. However, some of the original battlefronts from the first game, such as Rhen Var, have been removed. *Special opportunities throughout the game for players to wield a lightsaber and use their favorite Force powers as Jedi and Sith characters depending on the battlefront. *Three new classes: Engineer (Land) and Marine (Space). Engineer replaces the Pilot on land as the Pilot is now the primary Space Class. The third is a special "officer" that varies depending on the player's faction. For example, the Republic forces can choose to become Clone Commanders, while players siding with the CIS can make use of IG-100 MagnaGuards. *Online multiplayer action for up to 24 players on PS2, up to 32 on Xbox or up to 64 on Windows (plus AI units). *Wi-Fi (wireless) compatible, up to four players wireless multiplayer (PSP). *Engineer/Pilot units can hijack enemy vehicles by using their fusioncutters to rip open hatches and pull the enemy outside before climbing in and stealing the vehicle. *Players will be able to change the reinforcement count in Instant Action from 150 for quick skirmishes up to 750 per team for epic battles. *New and better GUI for better gameplay. *New Instant Action Modes: Hunt, Capture the Flag, XL (PC only) and Hero Assault, where players can fight it out as every hero and villain in the game. *Players can change their character at any friendly Command Post. *Players can earn awards with units. For example, any unit can obtain the "Endurance", "Guardian", and "War Hero" awards, but only Snipers can earn "Marksman", only Engineers can earn "Regulator", and only Soldiers and Marines can earn "Frenzy". *Players may now "Sprint", running faster than usual, making getting around the battlefront easier. The game contains an optional training mission on Geonosis. This mission takes the player around a battlefield and teaches them all of the various methods of fighting a battle. The mission consists of the following tasks: *Reach a specific point on the map. *Eliminate three droid scouts, all B2 super battle droids. *Destroy a damaged Hailfire droid. *Capture a command post next to a downed Techno Union ship. *Repair two droids, one for health and the other for ammunition. *Destroy a spider droid with an All Terrain Tactical Enforcer. *Seize a holocron dropped by a dead Geonosian. *Capture a command post at the top of a mountain. *Use a sniper rifle to eliminate three more droids. *Destroy a spider droid with a rocket launcher. *Eliminate ten enemies as Mace Windu. *Take over the CIS main bunker. The 501st Legion was not created until after the Battle of Geonosis, but a clone trooper who would later become a member of the 501st compiled this journal entry: My first day as a member of the 501st... it was hot, sandy, chaotic. Nothing at all like the simulations on Kamino. Of course that's pretty much the way it was for all of us, wasn't it? All that breeding, all those years of training, it doesn't really prepare you for the all the screaming, or the blood, does it? Frankly I'm amazed we ever made it past the first hour, never mind the first day. Incredibly, the 501st survived the crucible of Geonosis, emerging battle-hardened, and ready for whatever the war would throw at us. In Campaign Mode, the player follows the campaigns of the 501st Legion as told through the 501st Journal. As players progress through the game, they play as a clone trooper during the reign of the Republic and as a stormtrooper during the reign of the Empire. The action brings players to multiple planets through a story arc that stretches from the dawn of the Clone Wars to the formation of the Empire and later, bridging the gap between Episodes III and IV. Unlike the first Battlefront, Battlefront II's campaign gives players certain objectives with a given number of reinforcements with the enemy's reinforcements unlimited and an occasional time limit rather than playing an ordinary conquest match. The game also gives the option to skip space missions. (22 – 19 BBY - The Clone Wars) *Part 1: Geonosis&mdash;Attack of the Clones *Part 2: Mygeeto&mdash;Amongst the Ruins *Part 3: Coruscant Space&mdash;A Desperate Rescue *Part 4: Felucia&mdash;Heart of Darkness *Part 5: Kashyyyk Space&mdash;First Line of Defense *Part 6: Kashyyyk&mdash;A Line in the Sand *Part 7: Utapau&mdash;Underground Ambush *Part 8: Coruscant&mdash;Operation: Knightfall (18 BBY – 3 ABY - Imperial Era/Galactic Civil War) thumb|right|150px|A Darktrooper on Polis Massa *Part 1: Naboo&mdash;Imperial Diplomacy *Part 2: Mustafar Space&mdash;Preventive Measures *Part 3: Mustafar&mdash;Tying up Loose Ends *Part 4: Kamino&mdash;Changing of the Guard *Part 5: Death Star&mdash;Prison Break *Part 6: Polis Massa&mdash;Birth of the Rebellion *Part 7: Tantive IV&mdash;Recovering the Plans *Part 8: Yavin 4 Space&mdash;Vader's Fist Strikes Back *Part 9: Yavin 4&mdash;Revenge of the Empire *Part 10: Hoth&mdash;Our Finest Hour See also: Operation: Knightfall *This mission puts the player on the side of the Republic during Operation: Knightfall. The clone troopers fight alongside Darth Vader against Jedi Temple Security Guards and Jedi. Because the mission is told from the perspective of the clone troopers, the Temple Guardians and Jedi in this mission are set as Rebels. *This mission shows a raid on Naboo's capital city, Theed, where Queen Apailana is hiding a group of surviving Jedi she has made her personal bodyguards. The Empire fights the Royal Naboo Security Forces on the streets of Theed. Like with Operation: Knightfall, this sees the RNSF and Jedi as Rebels, especially considering the RNSF use Rebel AAC-1 speeder tanks. *The missions Preventive Measures and Tying up Loose Ends show the skirmish between the Empire and CIS forces in space around Mustafar and on the planet's surface. In these two missions, a rogue Geonosian engineer by the name of Gizor Dellso has reactivated the hidden droid factory on Mustafar. The 501st must first eliminate space defenses, then land on the planet and assault the factory, eliminating Dellso before he can reignite the Clone Wars. *The mission Changing of the Guard pits the Empire against rogue clone troopers. The Prime Minister of Kamino has been secretly growing a new Clone Army, bred to take up arms against the Empire. Darth Vader hires Boba Fett for his knowledge of the inner workings of the clone facility and sends the 501st to Kamino to destroy the cloning facility with Boba's help due to his time spent there when he was younger with his father, Jango. *The Anti-Troopers the Empire fights are clones with the palette of heavy troopers and jet troopers with blaster/sniper rifles and are set as "Republic". Certain levels of the campaign require the elimination of an important person or persons in order to win the battle. *Utapau&mdash;General Grievous *Jedi Temple&mdash;Three Jedi Masters *Naboo&mdash;Queen Apailana *Mustafar&mdash;Gizor Dellso *Death Star&mdash;Rebel Jedi Padawan *Tantive IV&mdash;Princess Leia Organa *Yavin 4&mdash;Bothan High Command The Galactic Conquest mode in Star Wars: Battlefront II has been completely revamped. In this new mode, players build and maintain fleets and try to achieve galactic dominance by conquering enemy worlds. A map of the galaxy shows planets controlled by the player, enemy-controlled planets, and pockets of empty space. Since there is only one map per planet (except Tatooine, even though Jabba's Palace is not in this mode) Planets can only be controlled by one side or the other, unlike the first game, where planets could be neutral. To attack a hostile planet, the player moves their fleet to the enemy planet. If an enemy capital ship is in orbit around the planet, the battle begins in space; otherwise a skirmish begins on the surface. A space battle also ensues if two enemy fleets meet in empty space. In space battles, the losing faction loses their fleet. If the victor is attacking a hostile planet, a ground battle begins directly after the victory. At the end of the battle, a summary shows what has occurred and displays how many credits were earned in the battle. The credit values for winning and losing vary based on the planet conquered as well as the number of planets already controlled by the faction. Each faction begins with one fleet. The cost to build more fleets depends on the number of fleets already in play. For example, Team 1 owns one fleet and wants to purchase another for 1000 credits. Team 1 then wishes to buy another fleet, which costs 2000 credits. The game ends when one side loses all of their planets and fleets. Each faction begins with the basic trooper for land battles and the pilot for space battles. They also begin with 1000 credits. At the beginning of any turn, the player has the option to purchase another class. The costs vary based on the class. *Infantry: Free *Heavy Weapons: 1000 *Sniper: 1000 *Engineer:1000 *Special 1: 1800 *Special 2: 1800 *Pilot: Free (Space Only) *Marine: 800 (Space Only) The bonuses return from the first game, although more strategy is involved. Instead of controlling the planets to gain these bonuses, the player must purchase them at the beginning of their turn. These bonuses can be used to aid their forces, protect command posts, or harm enemy units. However, once the bonus has been used it will need to be bought again. A player can have a maximum of 3 bonuses at a time. *Energy Boost: Causes the player's unit's energy gauge to replenish faster after being depleted (200 credits) *Supplies: Increases amount of ammunition and other supplies the player's units can carry (200) *Reinforced Garrison: Adds extra troops to the player's reinforcement bank if it drops too low (200) *Auto Turrets: Automatically reinforces the player's command posts with defense grid turrets (400) *Bacta Tanks: Causes the health of all the player's units to automatically regenerate at a constant rate (400) *Combat Shielding: Gives the player's units an extra reserve of health upon entering the battlefield (400) *Sabotage: Causes all enemy vehicles to suffer damage upon spawning in (600) *Enhanced Blasters: Amplifies the damage of all blaster-type weapons for the player's team (600) *Leader: Activates the player's faction's playable hero for planetary battles (800) There are four different starting scenarios. If the player takes the enemy's base planet (bolded in the following list), he/she obtains twice the number of credits than normal, and that planet is permanently removed from gameplay. *Birth of the Rebellion: Hoth, Dagobah, Yavin 4 *Republic Sovereignty: Kamino, Naboo, Coruscant *Dark Reign of the Empire: Endor, Coruscant, Mustafar *The Confederate Uprising: Geonosis, Utapau, Mustafar States that the Rebellion has liberated the galaxy, ends with Darth Sidious being thrown into the Death Star II reactor and the liberation of planets as Luke Skywalker rebuilds the Jedi Order on Coruscant. A celebration with fireworks is held on Endor, Naboo, and Tatooine. Heroes of Yavin are seen reunited. "A New Hope and End Credits" is played. (Note: This is the only canon ending to a scenario due to the events of the Original Trilogy.) States that the Republic has reclaimed the galaxy, ends with the defeat of General Grievous at Utapau, and Darth Sidious is killed by Mace Windu. Anakin Skywalker becomes a Jedi Master. Ki-Adi-Mundi, Aayla Secura, Plo Koon and Stass Allie are not killed by their troops, as Order 66 never occurred. The clones remain loyal to the Republic and the Jedi Order. Galactic Civil War never occurs, and Anakin does not become Darth Vader. "Anakin vs. Obi-Wan" (a variation of the "Battle of the Heroes") is played. States that the Empire has conquered the galaxy, Boba Fett captures Han Solo and leaves him encased in carbonite at Jabba's Palace. Darth Vader captures Princess Leia and is seen Force choking her on the Tantive IV. The Imperials push back the Rebel forces on Endor and defeat them in a space battle as well. Luke surrenders, and is shown bowing down to Palpatine on the Death Star II. The Emperor and Darth Vader rule the Galaxy. "The Imperial March" plays. States that the CIS has conquered the galaxy, ends with the Droid Army annihilating Republic forces. Then they lead an attack on the Jedi Temple with Darth Sidious as their leader. Anakin and Count Dooku are shown dueling on Mustafar. Dooku kills Anakin on a bridge above a lava reservoir. Darth Maul and Jango Fett are show to be alive and well, battling the Republic on various planets. General Grievous hunts down and kills the remaining Jedi. "Duel of the Fates" plays. In addition to the single player storyline, Galactic Conquest, and both single- and multiplayer Instant Action, Battlefront II has several new game modes &ndash; Hunt, Capture the Flag, Hero Assault, and XL, a PC-only single player mode. There is also a glitch on the PS2 and PC versions of the game: when zooming in between Mustafar and Endor and pressing pause, two extra modes appear: Team Deathmach and Team CP. However, both are unplayable without modding the game. Hunt mode operates much like Assault mode. An army of indigenous forces (e.g., Wampas) and a faction (e.g., Rebel Alliance), fight each other to reach a set number of points first. This mode is somewhat unbalanced, as some forces are stronger than others; for example, the Endor scenario pits rock-wielding Ewoks against the scout trooper. The Ewoks are technically more powerful due to the scout trooper's role in the game as sniper infantry. *Endor: Ewoks (sharp rocks, tribal spear) vs. scout troopers (sniper rifle, blaster pistol, thermal detonator, autoturret) *Geonosis: Geonosians (sonic blaster) vs. clone sharpshooters (sniper rifle, blaster pistol, thermal detonator, autoturret) *Hoth: Wampas (claw) vs. Rebel Infantry (All Variations) *Kashyyyk: Wookiees (bowcaster, fusioncutter or thermal detonator) vs. IG-100 MagnaGuards (Bulldog Rocket Launcher, Radiation Launcher, Neuro Poison, Recon droid) *Mos Eisley: Jawas (Ion blaster, fusioncutter) vs. Tusken Raiders (Bolt Action Rifle or Tusken cycler) *Naboo: Gungans (fusioncutter, thermal detonator) vs. super battle droids (wrist blaster, TriShot, wrist rocket) *Rhen Var (Xbox Live download): Wampas (claw) vs. Rebel Infantry (All Variations) Capture the Flag, or CTF for short, is another mode available for play on all maps (including space maps). In CTF, two factions try to capture a flag and return it to a base. Points are awarded to the team for the number of flags recovered. Winners are determined by the number of flags captured, either by a set number of captures or a time limit. When a Jet or Dark Trooper picks up the flag they can't fly. When Jedi pick up the flag they will not be able to use Force Jump or Force Hover. Droidekas cannot pick up the flag while in ball mode. Some rules vary depending on the variations present in the game, 1-flag and 2-flag. In 1-flag CTF, a neutral flag is placed approximately halfway between each faction's bases. The objective is to capture the flag and bring it to the opposite faction's base. This is the only CTF mode available for Space maps and some close to big maps like Yavin 4 or Hoth. 2-flag CTF resembles traditional Capture the Flag. It involves two factions which both hold a flag at their respective bases. The player must steal the flag from the enemy's base and return it to their own base. This mode, taking place only on the Mos Eisley map, pits multiple copies of the game's playable Heroes against multiple copies of the playable Villains. The game plays out much like a Space Assault mode battle: the two teams battle each other to gain a set amount of points. The team to reach that number first wins. In the Xbox Live download players are able to play Hero Assault mode at Kashyyyk. It plays out with the Heroes controlling the sea wall and Villains attacking from the island. This mode is only available on the PC in single player mode on the Kashyyyk, Hoth, and Geonosis maps. The idea is similar to Assault mode. When the player's team is the first to reach a certain number of points, victory is declared. The mode also limits the command posts, so that none can be captured or lost. The difference between XL and Assault is that in Assault there are always 180 obtainable points for each team, while in XL there can be more than 300 soldiers on each side. This mode is only available in the PC version because the PC is the only system able to calculate the huge numbers of entities. A total of eight classes are available to play &ndash; six for land, two for space. Each offers a different battlefield function. Almost all classes are identical for each faction, keeping the game balanced. The "Unique" class is different for each side and varies with the map. In the instant action mode you can add units if points increase like wookiee warrior or CIS Magna Guard. The Trooper, or Soldier Class is a well-rounded class that serves as the keystone of the armies. They have a notable weakness against Vehicles, but can destroy one in groups, and are effective in nearly every situation, from close combat firefights to long range suppressive fire. They carry blaster rifles which are effective at short, medium, as well as long ranges. These soldiers also carry 4 thermal detonators, while other classes can only carry 2. Because of their rapid-fire blaster rifles, troopers are often the frontline troops and are best at taking out enemy infantry head-on. They are fairly well-balanced in terms of speed, firepower, and endurance. The soldiers of each faction are: *Galactic Republic: Clone Trooper (DC-15 blaster rifle, DC-15s blaster pistol, V-1 thermal detonator) *CIS: Super Battle Droid (wrist blaster, Tri Shot, wrist rocket) *Rebel Alliance: Rebel Soldier (DH-17 blaster rifle, DL-44 blaster pistol, Class-A thermal detonators) *Galactic Empire: Stormtrooper (E-11 blaster rifle, SE-14r light repeating blaster pistol/scout trooper blaster pistol (depending on console), baradium-core thermal detonators) The Heavy Weapons Class is a common division in most armies. It consists of soldiers armed with missile launchers that are able to lock-on and home in on vehicles, primarily used to destroy vehicles and turrets. They also carry two thermal detonators, mines, and a light blaster pistol for short-range protection. As one of the heaviest units, they have one of the highest endurance and defense and can sustain a lot more damage than units from other classes. They are, however, one of the slowest units in the game, and as their launchers cannot lock on to non-vehicle targets and require reloading after each shot, they are not well suited for dealing with groups of enemy infantry. In addition to their missile launchers, heavy troopers are equipped with a standard blaster pistol as a side-arm, thermal detonators, and proximity mines. These mines emit an obvious red-glow and will not be set off by a teammate, although it can still kill them if they are caught in the blast radius. The heavy weapon specialists of each faction are: *Galactic Republic: Clone Heavy Trooper (PLX rocket launcher, DC-15s blaster pistol, V-1 thermal detonators, HX2 mines) *CIS: Assault Battle Droid (E-60R rocket launcher, SE-14 blaster pistol, V-1 thermal detonators, HX2 mines) *Rebel Alliance: Rebel Vanguard (HH-15 rocket launcher, DL-44 heavy blaster pistol, Class-A thermal detonators , 3HX3 mines) *Galactic Empire: Shock Trooper (PTL rocket launcher, SE-14r light repeating blaster pistol/scout trooper blaster pistol (depending on console), baradium-core thermal detonators, KE-6b mines) The Sniper Class consists of snipers who are equipped with extremely high powered long-range rifles. It takes a single headshot to kill every unit except Heroes and droidekas. Often, snipers operate in elevated positions, away from the center of battle, where they can quietly eliminate an entire team without being noticed. They are the ultimate unit for long-range fighting and also work well at medium ranges and can also deploy auto-turrets for extra defense. While their long-range sniper rifles make them effective units in dealing with infantry, they also make them the weakest units in taking out vehicles and enclosed turrets, being able to deal practically no damage to artillery. Moreover, their rifles are light and quick at aiming even at close ranges, but the slow rate-of-fire and light armor make them nevertheless inefficient at directly facing groups of soldier units. Being the lightest troops in the game, they have the fastest speed at the cost of having the least endurance. The snipers of each faction are: *Galactic Republic: Clone Sharpshooter (DC-15x sniper rifle, DC-15s blaster pistol, V-1 thermal detonators, autoturret) *CIS: Assassin Droid (E-5s sniper rifle, SE-14 blaster pistol, V-1 Thermal Detonators, autoturret) *Rebel Alliance: Rebel Marksman (E-17d sniper rifle, DL-44 heavy blaster pistol, Class-A thermal detonators, autoturret) *Galactic Empire: Scout Trooper (E-11s sniper rifle, SE-14r light repeating blaster pistol/scout trooper blaster pistol (depending on console), baradium-core thermal detonators, autoturret) The Engineer Class are the troopers called to provide battlefield repairs and act as medics and ammo suppliers. It consists of engineers (or technicians) who carry handheld shotguns and explosive detpacks, which, unlike the proximity mines of heavy weapon specialists, can be detonated remotely. They also carry fusioncutters, which can repair allied vehicles, construct and repair turrets, or slice into enemy vehicles. Their shotguns are extremely deadly at close-range, but nevertheless the cost of rate-of-fire usually makes them inferior to the faster firing soldiers. Because of this, engineers mainly serve as support units for the main-line assault units. Their speed is secondary compared to that of snipers and are also second to them in terms of weakest endurance and defense. The engineers of each faction are: *Galactic Republic: Clone engineer (shotgun, F-187 fusioncutter, detpacks, health and ammo dispenser) *CIS: Engineer Droid (shotgun, F-187 fusioncutter, detpacks, health and ammo dispenser) *Rebel Alliance: Rebel Smuggler (CR-1 blaster cannon, F-187 fusioncutter, detpacks, health and ammo dispenser) *Galactic Empire: Imperial Engineer (blast cannon, F-187 fusioncutter, detpacks, health and ammo dispenser) Star Wars: Battlefront II introduces an extra special unit class. Each unit within this class have their own unique set of weapons and equipment. Each unit of this class has their own ability to affect those around them, either increasing stats of their teammates or decreasing health of enemies. In contrast to the other previous classes, a player must unlock 8 points in a battle before being able to use a unit from the first special class. The special units of each faction are: *Clone Commander (Galactic Republic) (chaingun, DC-15s Blaster Pistol, Rally [Defense Increase], Mark IV recon droid) The clone commander's signature weapon, the rapid-firing chaingun, is most effective in more enclosed areas against a small number of enemies. The chaingun is, arguably, the best gun in the game, as it can quickly eliminate multiple enemies under its incredible rate of fire. However, it has a short delay before firing as its barrels spin up and is ineffective against vehicles and turrets, being comparable to that of the sniper rifle's power on vehicles. Commanders carry a blaster pistol for short range protection and emergency use if their chaingun is overheated or did not have time to spin up. They can also use Rally to temporarily boost all nearby friendly troops' morale and increase their resistance to damage, thus a team is at its most effective when traveling with a Clone Commander. In addition, they have a recon droid to serve as short-range reconnaissance. The recon droid, although is has a limited period of time before exploding, can defend itself with a weak blaster or a self-destruct mechanism. Unfortunately, deploying a recon droid renders the user immobile and completely vulnerable to enemy fire while the droid itself is often destroyed while preparing to self-destruct, at which point it must remain immobile before detonating. *MagnaGuard (Confederacy of Independent Systems) (Bulldog RLR, radiation launcher, Neuro Poison, Mark IV recon droid) Magnaguards are advanced droids that carry an arsenal of explosive weapons. Their Bulldog RLR's missiles can lock onto an enemy (even infantry) and kill in one to two shots, or they could be launched rapidly without locking on. Their radiation launchers are ballistic weapons that dispense projectiles similar to grenades, and is itself a type of grenade launcher, but with almost no splash damage. Like the clone commanders they carry with them recon droids for reconnaissance. However, the Magnaguards' weapons have limited ammunition and a slower rate of fire, meaning that they are best used to provide supporting fire to supplement its allies. Moreover, they are equipped with one-use neuro poison dispenser, which slowly reduces the health of all nearby units (except droids) once activated, thereby eventually causing inevitable death. *Imperial officer (Galactic Empire) (sonic blaster, V-6d mortar launcher, Rage [Damage Increase], Mark IV recon droid) Imperial officers have an arsenal similar to the Magnaguard's. Their primary weapon is a sonic blaster, quick-firing blasters with a wide-range but very low power, as is typical of sonic weapons in Battlefront. Alongside this sonic gun is a mortar launcher, which fires grenades that can either explode on impact or delayed with a charged setting to allow ricochet. Just like the previous two units, Imperial officers are also each equipped with a recon droid. Their Rage bonus temporarily augments the firepower of nearby allies, thus serving most effectively when traveling in a group with friendly troops. Like the Magnaguard, the Imperial officer's weapons have limited ammo and a slow rate of fire, making them more of a support class to allies. *Bothan Spy (Rebel Alliance) (incinerator, [Health] Regeneration, Stealth, TB-47 time bomb) Bothan spies are units equipped for mostly stealth and strategic purposes. Their primary weapon is a short-range incinerator rifle that can quickly take out groups of enemies with increasing firepower. Despite its high rate-of-fire, however, the incinerator nevertheless takes more time to kill than a standard blaster rifle would in some cases. Because of this, it is usually used in conjunction with their stealth field generator, which allows them to become invisible. While invisible, a Bothan spy can utilize ambush tactics on their unaware enemy or capture command posts unseen. However, the user would be immediately forced out of stealth the moment they fire a wave of incinerating blasts, and if timed incorrectly, they can easily be taken out by a group of soldiers. Unlike the previous three special units, the recon droid is replaced with a sticky time bomb that detonates with a large concussive blast after 5 seconds. These bombs can be planted on an unsuspecting enemy turret. Finally, Bothans have the ability to gradually regenerate the health of all nearby comrades. Like the previous class, the second group of special units also defy categorization in terms of weapons and abilities. Therefore, each unit has their own strengths and weaknesses but cannot be used until a player earns a total of 12 points in a battle. The advanced special units of each faction are: *Clone jet trooper (Galactic Republic) (EMP launcher, DC-17 blaster pistol, V-1 thermal detonators) Clone jet troopers' main advantage is their agility, granted to them by their jetpacks, which allows them to quickly traverse great distances and gives them advantageous position over the enemy. Their EMP launchers fire devastating blasts of electromagnetism which, though slow-moving, can kill an enemy in one shot and eliminate a droideka's shield in two. They are equipped with a rapid-firing commando pistol as a sidearm, which is stronger than the regular blaster pistol. These units can be used to sneak up behind enemies using their jetpacks and ambush them from behind, then spring away to safety while they reload. They are the Republic's answer to the CIS droideka due to their agility in dodging the devastating laser bolts from destroyer droids and their EMP launcher's effectiveness in taking down their shields. However, they have gone down in defense and endurance since the previous game, and the electromagnetic blast radius of their EMP launchers also have a smaller splash damage radius than before. To accommodate their jetpack, they are impervious to fall damage. *Droideka (Confederacy of Independent Systems) (repeating blasters, personal shield) Droidekas are arguably one of the most powerful special units in the game. Their twin repeating blasters are one of the most devastating in-game, and their personal shield emitters give them one of the strongest defense. Using their shield in conjunction with their blasters, they can easily mow down multiple troops. Because of this, they are well-suited to massive firefights. Their shields can also be used to protect allies behind the shield and allow them to reload weapons. The droideka is not without flaws, however. It can not enter vehicles, as the manual states that the droideka itself is considered a vehicle. Its shield lasts for twenty to thirty seconds and can quickly be dissipated under fire from large groups of enemies. Additionally, they must be rolled up into a ball in order to travel quickly from place to place. Although fast, they are completely vulnerable when in this mode, as they are unable to raise their shield or fire their weapons. To attack, they must be deployed into their open configuration, at which point they would be one of the slowest units in the game, only being able to move at a very slow speed and also having a limited horizontal rotation rate. *Dark Trooper (Galactic Empire) (arc caster, SE-14r light repeating blaster pistol, baradium-core thermal detonators) The dark trooper is the Imperial counterpart to the jet trooper. Their jump-packs can boost them off the ground very quickly, but unlike the jet trooper's jetpack, it sacrifices accuracy for speed and height. Their powerful arc casters fire a mid-ranged, wide bolt of electricity, which, when charged, can "arc" from one unit to up to four other units. They also carry a fast-firing commando pistol as a sidearm and, like the jet trooper, they can be used to gain an advantageous position over an enemy or ambush them from behind. As a result of their jump pack ability, they do not sustain fall damage. *Wookiee Warrior (Rebel Alliance) (Wookiee Bowcaster, HH-4 grenade launcher, Class A thermal detonators, Mark IV recon droid) The Wookiee warrior has the most stamina of all units, about twice of that of a normal soldier, which makes up for their lack of speed and slow-firing arsenal. Their high endurance makes them able to withstand far more damage, sometimes being able to survive even a grenade. They are heavy hitters, with a unique bowcaster that can fire a spread of deadly shots, or fire a large, powerful bolt when charged up. The hand-made bowcaster features a scope with two zoom capabilities and can be used as an effective sniper rifle when charged and zoomed. They carry grenade launchers that fire ballistic grenades, which explode after a few seconds when making contact with the ground. They also carry 4 thermal detonators to clear up large groups of enemies, and a recon droid to scout an area. The Pilot Class is used to launch assaults in space. Pilots are most useful in the cockpit of a starfighter, being able to automatically repair any ship they occupy. On the ground, they are each equipped with a commando pistol, time bombs, and fusion cutters. Although much more practical piloting a starfighter than fighting on-ground, their time bombs are the most effective at taking out critical systems from the interior of a capital ship. Their stamina, defense, and speed are roughly equivalent to that of an engineer. The pilot class included: *Galactic Republic: Clone Pilot (commando pistol, F-187 fusioncutter, TB-47 time bombs) *CIS: Pilot Droid (commando pistol, F-187 fusioncutter, TB-47 time bombs) *Rebel Alliance: Rebel Pilot (commando pistol, F-187 fusioncutter, TB-47 time bomb) *Galactic Empire: Imperial Pilot (commando pistol, F-187 fusioncutter, TB-47 time bomb) The marine class is a standard division of troops in most armies. They are trained to defend their capital ship in the event that it is boarded by enemy troops or to do vice versa. Marines are armed with portable rocket launchers for demolishing enemy ships, as well as regular blaster rifles and thermal detonators. Because they lack the ability to automatically repair any starfighter they occupy, they are not recommended to be used as bombers or dogfighters. Instead, they are most useful in raiding the enemy cruiser. The marine class included: *Clone Marine (Galactic Republic) (DC-15 blaster rifle, PLX rocket launcher, V-1 thermal detonators) *Droid marine (Confederacy of Independent Systems) (E-5 blaster rifle, E-60R missile launcher, V-1 thermal detonator) *Rebel Marine (Rebel Alliance) (DH-17 blaster rifle, HH-15 rocket launcher, Class A thermal detonators) *Imperial Marines (Galactic Empire) (E-11 blaster rifle, PTL rocket launcher, baradium-core thermal detonators) On certain levels, certain characters have outfit changes to match the environment or as seen in the Star Wars Movies. The following lists the levels where the classes have a special outfit instead of the standard that is used on all other maps. *All clone troopers, except the clone commander: Phase I armor&mdash;Geonosis *Clone sharpshooter: clone scout trooper outfit&mdash;Kashyyyk, Felucia, Mustafar CTF *Assassin Droid: camouflage grass paint job&mdash;Felucia and Kashyyyk. sand paint job&mdash;Tatooine and Geonosis *Anakin Skywalker: Sith cloak&mdash;Jedi Temple (Campaign mode only) *All Imperials except Imperial officer and dark trooper: snowtrooper outfit&mdash;Hoth *Imperial engineers : AT-AT pilot&mdash;Hoth *Luke Skywalker: Pilot outfit&mdash;Hoth, black Jedi outfit&mdash;Jabba's Palace, Death Star, Mygeeto, Coruscant *All Rebels except Rebel smuggler, Wookiee warrior, and Bothan spy: snow outfit&mdash;Hoth, Gray outfit&mdash;Dagobah, Polis Massa, jungle outfit&mdash;Yavin 4, Endor, Kashyyyk, desert outfit&mdash;Tatooine, Utapau, Tantive IV outfit&mdash;Tantive IV, Death Star., aqua outfit&mdash;Kamino, Players can earn weapon upgrades, depending on the soldier type. All reward weapons (excluding the Guidable Rockets) replace an existing weapon. It should be noted that some of the weapons can be either situationally weaker and/or more limited than the one it replaces. A prime example is the AWARD sniper rifle-the beam is ineffective in some situation where the regular sniper rifle is fine. In the event of trying to snipe a target from the top of a turret for example, where a head shot would be required, the AWARD rifle disregards headshots, but delivers an almost always instant kill body shot instead. {| !Reward !Applies to !Ability !Replaces |- |Precision Pistol: |All Classes that wield a pistol |Fires faster, highly accurate and more powerful blaster bolts. However, the precision pistol has limited ammo, whereas the normal pistol has unlimited ammo and only overheats. Like Jango's Westar blaster. |Blaster Pistol, Commando Pistol |- |Elite Assault Rifle: |Trooper/Soldier Class, Marine Class |Fires higher powered purple blaster bolts, which are more powerful than a normal blaster rifle, resulting in very quick kills. It fires 3 shots in quick succession with one trigger pull (burst fire). Like Boba's rifle. |Blaster Rifle, Wrist Blaster |- |Guidable Rockets (Rocket Launcher): |Heavy Weapons Class, Marine Class |Fires a guidable rocket. Control is identical to a space guidable missile and Chewbacca's guidable rocket. |None (existing rocket launcher remains) |- |Flechette shotgun: |Engineer Class |Fires shrapnel which damages enemies even after collision with object. The shrapnel also does not spread as much, allowing for longer range. This is also the only AWARD weapon with more ammo than the regular weapon. |Shotgun, Blast Cannon |- |Beam Rifle: |Sniper Class |Fires a long-range powerful blaster beam, capable of firing through multiple enemies. |Sniper Rifle |- |} *Wrist Blaster: A blaster mounted on the wrist of a super battle droid. The weapon holds a clip of fifty rounds. Its rate of fire is slower than that of the blaster rifle. However, it deals slightly more amount of damage than a blaster rifle, and is more accurate. *TriShot: A powerful wrist-mounted variant of a shotgun which fires three powerful rounds in a triangular pattern, hence the name. If all three rounds hit a normal soldier, they would be left with only one hit point. However, the weapon has a slow rate of fire and will overheat in just three shots. *Blaster rifle: A rapid-firing, all-purpose rifle which fires blaster rounds that are effective at basically any range. The blaster rifle utilizes a fifty round clip. The trooper/soldier will carry between 200 to 300 rounds, depending on the military force in which he serves. The effectiveness of the weapon decreased with range, as the rifle would begin to lose much of its accuracy after several consecutive shots at long range. *Sniper rifle: A high-powered, long-range rifle with two zoom settings for its scope. It has a slow rate of fire, but can provide a one-hit kill when targeting an enemy's head. The sniper rifle's clip size holds five beam rounds. The weapon is best used to eliminate enemies at a distance. However, the sniper rifle can be effective at close ranges when wielded by a skilled user. *Blast cannon: This weapon fires a spread of eight rounds with each shot. The weapon has a slow rate of fire, and each of its clips holds only five rounds. The shotgun was most effective at close-quarters, where a target had a smaller range of motion. If fired at point-blank range, the weapon can kill with one shot. *Blaster pistol: A blaster pistol which fires rounds weaker than those of a blaster rifle. It is primarily used as a sidearm for close-range combat. The blaster pistol has infinite ammunition. However, the weapon overheats after several successive shots, and must be allowed to cool before it can be fired again. *Commando Pistol: A more potent variant of the aforementioned blaster pistol. The weapon deals more damage per round, fires faster, and cools more quickly than the standard blaster. The weapon is as effective as the blaster rifle when in the hands of a skilled user. *Chaingun: A devastating weapon with six rotating barrels which give it an incredibly fast rate of fire. It takes a few seconds for the weapon to commence firing once it has been activated. However, once it begins to fire, the weapon reaches a high rate of fire quite quickly. The chaingun can fire for a long time before overheating, and it cools rapidly. The weapon is used to quickly eliminate multiple enemies at close and medium range and is effective at eliminating heroes. The weapon is also effective for point defense purposes as well. *Repeating blaster: Twin heavy blasters mounted on the arms of droidekas. They have a high rate of fire and their rounds are equivalent to those of the blaster rifle. These blasters overheat quickly. When mounted upon droidekas, these weapons provide suppressive fire and can quickly cut down infantry that remain exposed. *Bowcaster: A handmade crossbow used by Wookiee Warriors. It features a scope with two zoom settings. The weapon fires a spread of small bolts. The bowcaster can also be charged up to fire a single bolt which has the same stopping power as a round from the sniper rifle. *Incinerator: A weapon that blasts forth a large, short-ranged wave of incinerating gases with each pull of the trigger. The weapon requires reloading after each round is fired. This weapon is most effective when using invisibility to sneak up on a small group of enemies and unleashing a huge wave of incendiary gases, damaging or killing multiple enemies at once. *Sonic blaster: A weapon which fires a large, short-ranged wave of sound that deals low to moderate damage upon a target. *ARC Caster: An electronic rifle that fires a short-ranged wave of electricity. The wave will both stun and injure its target. The weapon can electrocute up to five targets simultaneously. *Thermal detonator: The standard explosive for soldiers, these are grenade-like weapons that can stick to or bounce off surfaces. They are thrown by hand and were effective for clearing away small groups of enemies, especially in narrow hallways and could be used to provide cover fire as the user reloaded or retreated. They were also used to destroy armored installations, especially turrets. Thermal detonators release all the thermal energy when thrown into any liquid environment like a lake or pond... they explode faster than normal. *Detpack: One of the most powerful explosives in the game, the detpack can be placed on the ground or on a wall and detonated remotely. They can be used to destroy enemy defenses or eliminate infantry, but can be destroyed by a Thermal detonator. *Wrist rocket: A slow-moving rocket fired from the wrist which would explode upon contact, resulting in a one-hit kill against infantry. *Mines: An extremely powerful explosive, mines can be planted at areas that are often traversed by enemies, called choke points. When enemies stepped on a mine, it would explode, killing all enemies within its effective range. Three Mines can do significant damage to an AT-AT. However, they can be destroyed with thermal detonators, fusion cutters, and rocket launchers. Engineers can safely cross them and clear the mines by slicing them with their tool. Mines can destroy most tanks with one mine, and kill heroes with a one-hit kill. *Missile launcher: An extremely powerful weapon which launched powerful rockets with a large blast radius. These weapons are devastating to vehicles and can kill multiple enemies in one shot through an explosion. Rocket launchers have limited ammo and take a long time to reload after each shot, but can be effective against infantry in the hands of a skilled user. They are also effective in large firefights where the enemy is especially concentrated, though the user runs the risk of damaging allies. This weapon is capable of locking onto and tracking vehicles. *EMP Launcher: A weapon which fires a single pulse of electromagnetic energy which, although slow-moving, can kill an enemy in one shot upon making contact. The EMP launcher is basically a rocket launcher modified for use against infantry, with a clip of two EM Power cells instead of rockets and a faster reloading time. However, the EMP has less splash damage and needs two direct hits to take down a Droideka's shield. The EMP launcher can be used on armored or multiple targets, especially when they are unaware. *Bulldog RLR: A rocket launcher that can fire six small rockets at a relatively fast rate. This weapon can lock-on to enemies and will almost always result in a one-hit kill. The rockets are easy to dodge, less powerful than the EMP launcher, and have very little splash damage. They can be used at close range or when an enemy is caught off guard. *Grenade launcher/Mortar launcher/Radiation Launcher: These ballistic weapons fire grenades which explode a few seconds after making contact with a surface. These are effective against both infantry and vehicles. Of the three, the radiation launcher is the most potent, as its explosion lasts slightly longer but as a disadvantage it does not damage vehicles. All versions of this weapon can be charged up to reach long ranges through the battlefield. An enemy infantryman can be damaged by the projectile if the weapon is fully charged and the projectile itself hits the enemy. *Time Bomb: A devastating bomb which detonates five seconds after being dropped. It is useful for shipboard sabotage, especially when they are dropped surreptitiously on a ship's hull just before it is launched, causing it to explode mid-flight. This bomb can eliminate or clear a massive wave of enemies. Only a powerful weapon like the detpack can destroy the time bomb. *Autoturret: Durable automatic turrets that are usually deployed to defend a command post or alert a sniper of approaching enemies. Though lacking in accuracy, these turrets are difficult to destroy and have a fast rate of fire. *Fusioncutter: An all-purpose engineering tool that can be used to hijack vehicles, repair ammo droids, health droids, and vehicles, or construct turrets on a turret platform. *Ammo and Health Dispenser: A dispenser which contains bacta and ammunition which can be used to aid allies or heal one's self. However, the ammunition canisters in the dispenser cannot replenish the dispenser amount. *Jetpack: A tool that uses repulsorlift technology to allow the user to fly through the air at the cost of fuel. The jetpack is both accurate and fast, allowing the user to reach inaccessible places. Jango Fett, Boba Fett, and jet troopers use these. *Jump pack: A type of jetpack that trades accuracy for height and speed. It projects the wearer in a large, sharp upward arc, landing them only a short distance away. It is far less accurate than the jetpack and spews dark smoke. Dark troopers use this. *Shield Emitter: A tool which generates a powerful personal shield that lasts for a limited time before it has to regenerate. The shield can absorb twenty blaster rifle shots but lost power the longer it is used. Droidekas use these. *Stealth: Bothan Spies use stealth to become nearly invisible. This ability depends on stamina, and the stamina is depleted by moving while under stealth. Strenuous actions such as rolling and sprinting while using stealth put the user at risk of being revealed. Stealth may also occasionally reveal the user briefly for no apparent reason. *Recon droid: A hovering droid used to scout an area. It is remotely controlled, can fire small blaster shots, and can self-destruct. It can be stopped from exploding if shot while self-destructing, although its small size and agility makes this difficult. *Rally Bonus: A bonus that makes enemy fire less damaging to oneself and nearby allies for a limited time. *Neuropoison: Rapidly poisons nearby enemies, depleting their health bar at a fast rate for a limited time. They continue to lose health even after moving out of the poison's effective range. *Rage Bonus: Increases the damage of oneself and nearby allies for a limited time. *Regeneration Bonus: Rapidly heals oneself and nearby allies for a limited time. This is the only bonus that cannot be earned with an AWARD. *Lightsaber: A hilt with a blade of plasma that can cut down enemies quickly and efficiently. This weapon is the signature weapon of both Jedi and Sith. *Double-bladed lightsaber: A pair of lightsabers connected in the middle by their hilts. This unique lightsaber variant gives the user a larger reach and a wider range when the lightsaber is thrown. This is the signature weapon of Darth Maul. *DL-44 heavy blaster pistol: A powerful, one-shot kill blaster that fires two rounds with one trigger pull. This is the signature weapon of Han Solo. *Defender sporting blaster pistol: Somewhat a pistol version of a sniper rifle, with the same power and rate of fire. However, it overheats quickly. This is the signature weapon of Princess Leia. *Invulnerability: Carried by Princess Leia, this bonus makes surrounding allies invulnerable to all enemy fire and explosives. *EE-3 carbine rifle: This weapon is identical to the AWARD rifle, except for the fact that it fires red bolts, rather than purple. It fires three high-powered rounds that usually result in a one-hit kill. The weapon is used by Boba Fett. *WESTAR-34 blaster pistol: This weapon is identical to the award pistol. It fires powerful and accurate bolts at an extremely fast rate. It is semi-automatic and has one zoom setting. Jango Fett uses this pistol as his signature weapon. *Flamethrower: A weapon which fires a short-ranged blast of fire that sets enemies aflame, slowly depleting their health. The fire extinguishes after several seconds and could be put out faster by rolling. Jango and Boba Fett use this weapon *Starblades: A weapon commonly utilized by Asajj Ventress, this attack can be used without limit by the Sith Assassin as a highly deadly projectile. Jedi and Sith have unique abilities which drain their stamina bar. Using the Force, these abilities extended the powers of the user beyond normal limits. Light Side Abilities *Force Push: An ability that pushes multiple opponents away, often used to create more room for the user. This ability can also be used to knock over opponents so that the Jedi or Sith can close into lightsaber range while they are getting up. Also it can be used to push enemy units off cliffs or into shafts such as those on the Death Star map. *Force Pull: The opposite of Force Push, this ability pulls a single opponent towards the user, where they are finished off by the attacker's lightsaber. This ability is best used to pull opponents out of large melees to avoid damaging allies with the lightsaber at close range. Like Push, it can also be used to more rapidly disable then kill an enemy with a dangerous ranged weapon. *Force Destruction: A powerful seismic wave generated when a Force-sensitive leaps into the air and slams their lightsaber down. This move is extremely powerful and blow opponents away from the user. Mace Windu and Kit Fisto are the only characters known to have this ability. Emperor Palpatine has a similar power with the difference being that lightning shoots up from the ground instead of a seismic wave. Heroes that do not have this ability will only perform a lightsaber attack consisting of a series of slashes when leaping into the air and attacking. *Force Orb: A throwable orb made of water, usable by Kit Fisto. Dark Side Abilities *Force Choke: An ability that lifts an opponent into the air and slowly chokes them. Darth Vader is a notorious user of this ability. Droids can be affected by this, despite being non-living, simply because it crushes their inner circuits rather than choking them. *Force Lightning: Lightning generated by a Force-sensitive that severely damages an enemy. The lightning can "jump" from person to person, behaving like arcing electricity. Darth Sidious and Count Dooku are well-known for their use of the ability. *Force Hover: This power is similar to Force Jump. The user will jump twice and hover temporarily instead of the usual ability to triple jump. As lightsaber attacks performed by leaping into the air and attacking while coming down are especially powerful, this move is useful for hovering over an opponent and delivering a devastating blow with the lightsaber down on them. Darth Vader and Darth Sidious often employ this unique Force ability. Neutral Abilities *Block: The Force-sensitive will block all enemy fire in front of them with their lightsaber for as long as the stamina bar holds out. By rapidly wielding his four lightsabers, General Grievous also has this ability, although he is not Force-sensitive. *Force jump: A Force-sensitive will jump up to four times, except for Yoda, who jumps five. The maximum height for a Force jump is roughly equivalent to the maximum altitude at which a jet trooper can hover. *Force Speed: A Force-sensitive will dash at very high speeds for as long as their stamina bar holds out. The Force-sensitive becomes hard to hit by all enemy fire. *Saber-Throw: A very common, powerful Force power. The lightsaber of the user becomes almost like a boomerang; the spinning lightsaber is thrown towards enemies, and can also deal damage when it automatically returns to the user. More powerful than the average strike with a lightsaber, this move could be used to clear the field of multiple enemies, especially on the lightsaber's return trip. Darth Maul, with his double-bladed lightsaber, often uses this ability, his thrown lightsaber having two times the radius of an average lightsaber. Duck or roll are primary infantry abilities used to dodge saber-throw. However, Yoda, Count Dooku, and Darth Sidious do not have this ability as a Jedi or Sith. After fulfilling the goals set in the Hero Options screen (e.g. earn 10 points), players are able to obtain the services of one of these Heroes to aid them. Each has a different ability and will last a limited amount of time. The time, represented by a lightsaber bar, will decrease faster if the player does negative things such as spawn-camping or killing teammates. The bar will increase if the player kills numerous enemy units or vehicles. Each team gets one Hero at a time, but there can be more than one Hero for each team per match if the Heroes are unlocked more than once. Each Jedi has the ability to use Force Jump and Force speed. The Force-sensitive characters also each get two of five special techniques. They are Force Pull (Jedi only), Force Push (both), Force Choke (Sith only), Force lightning (Sith only), Saber Throw (both). Most Jedi and Sith use a three attack combo, the last being the most powerful. Each faction has a hero that is primarily used more than others. Obi-Wan Kenobi can be used more than any hero in the Republic, Han Solo for the Rebellion, Darth Maul for the Confederacy, and Boba Fett for the Empire In Hero Assault Mode, multiple heroes occupy the map. The lightsaber health bar is replaced by the standard non-hero health bar. The characters Asajj Ventress and Kit Fisto are only available through the Xbox Live downloadable content. {| !Hero Name !Weapon !Abilities !Location !Music |- |Obi-Wan Kenobi |Lightsaber (blue) |Force Push, Saber Throw |Mos Eisley, Kamino, Utapau, Naboo, Mustafar, Death Star |Battle of the Heroes |- |Yoda |Lightsaber (green) |Force Push, Force Pull |Kashyyyk, Dagobah, Polis Massa, Tantive IV |Yoda Strikes Back |- |Mace Windu |Lightsaber (purple) |Force Push, Saber Throw, Force Destruction |Geonosis, Yavin 4, Coruscant |Fighting the Battle Droids |- |Ki-Adi-Mundi |Lightsaber (blue) |Force Pull, Saber Throw |Mygeeto |Onward to Utapau |- |Aayla Secura |Dual Lightsabers (blue, green) (PSP: blue, purple) |Force Pull, Saber Throw |Bespin, Felucia, Jabba's Palace |Goodbye, Old Friend |- |Kit Fisto (Xbox download only) |Lightsaber (green) |Saber Throw, Force Water Orb, Force Destruction |Rhen Var |Onward to Utapau |- |} {| !Hero Name !Weapon !Abilities !Location !Music |- |Luke Skywalker |Lightsaber (green) |Force Push, Saber Throw |Death Star, Jabba's Palace, Coruscant, Mygeeto, Yavin 4 |The Battle of Hoth: Beneath the AT-AT |- |Luke Skywalker (pilot) |Lightsaber (blue) |Force Push, Saber Throw |Hoth |The Battle of Hoth: Beneath the AT-AT |- |Han Solo |DL44 Blaster, Fusioncutter, Detpack |Rally |Endor, Utapau, Kamino, Mos Eisley, Rhen Var Citadel, Bespin (CTF) |Departure of Boba Fett |- |Chewbacca |Bowcaster, Guided Rocket, Time Bomb |Rage |Kashyyyk, Yavin 4, Felucia, Rhen Var Harbor |Shootout in the Detention Block |- |Princess Leia |Defender sporting blaster, Thermal detonators |Invulnerability |Tantive IV, Naboo, Polis Massa |Snowspeeders Take Flight |- |Yoda |Lightsaber (green) |Force Push, Force Pull |Dagobah |Yoda Strikes Back |- |Obi-Wan Kenobi |Lightsaber (blue) |Force Push, Saber throw |Mustafar |Battle of the Heroes |} {| !Villain Name !Weapon !Abilities !Location !Music |- |Count Dooku |Lightsaber (red) |Force lightning, Force Choke |Geonosis |Anakin's Dark Deeds |- |General Grievous |Two Lightsabers/Four Lightsabers (blue, green) (First two attacks have 2 sabers; the third and sprint attacks use 4 sabers) |Rage |Utapau, Tantive IV, Dagobah, Mygeeto |The Flag Parade |- |Jango Fett |WESTAR-34 blaster pistol, Flamethrower, Wrist Rocket, Time Bomb |Jetpack |Kamino, Kashyyyk, Felucia |Jango's Escape |- |Darth Maul |Double-bladed Lightsaber (red) |Force Push, Saber Throw |Mos Eisley, Coruscant, Naboo, Polis Massa, Jabba's Palace, Yavin 4, Mustafar, Rhen Var Citadel |Return to Tatooine (Duel of the Fates section) |- |Darth Sidious (Palpatine) |Lightsaber (red) |Force lightning, Force Choke |Death Star |I Am the Senate |- |Asajj Ventress (Xbox download only) |Paired lightsabers (red) |Starblades, Force Push |Rhen Var, Bespin, Yavin 4 Arena |Anakin’s Dark Deeds |} {| !Villain Name !Weapon !Abilities !Location !Music |- |Darth Vader |Lightsaber (red) |Force Choke, Saber Throw |Tantive IV, Hoth, Dagobah, Endor, Bespin |Anakin vs. Obi-Wan / The Boys Continue |- |Emperor Palpatine |Lightsaber (red) |Force lightning, Force Choke |Death Star, Polis Massa, Naboo, Coruscant, Rhen Var Harbor |I Am the Senate |- |Boba Fett |EE-3 blaster rifle, Flamethrower, Wrist Rocket, Detpack |Jetpack |Kamino, Yavin 4 (Temple & Arena), Kashyyyk, Utapau, Felucia, Mygeeto, Jabba's Palace, Mos Eisley |The Battle of Hoth: Ion Cannon |- |Anakin Skywalker |Lightsaber (blue) |Force Choke, Saber Throw |Mustafar, Coruscant (Story mission only. Includes hood) |Anakin vs. Obi-Wan/The Boys Continue (Instant Action), Love Pledge and The Arena (Campaign) |} thumb|250px|A [[Gamorrean/Legends|Gamorrean in Jabba's Palace on Tatooine.]] On certain levels, there are three way battles between the two normal sides and a neutral side, and on others, the natives join a certain side (except for the Empire, which has no native creatures). In addition, there are native creatures that will attack anything that comes across their path. The Jawas on Mos Eisley are an exception, they can create turrets and rebuild ammo and health droids, but mostly will wander around the map to keep doing these things, and despite seeing one with the occasional rifle, they are completely non-aggressive. {| !Name !Location !Affiliation |- |Acklay |Felucia (only in Campaign Mode) |Hostile (attacks Republic forces and droid turrets.) |- |Ewok |Endor |Rebel Alliance |- |Gamorrean |Jabba's Palace |Hostile |- |Geonosian |Geonosis |CIS |- |Gungan |Naboo (only in Hunt Mode) |Galactic Republic, Rebel Alliance (only on PSP Challenge) |- |Jawa |Mos Eisley |None (non-aggressive) |- |Rancor |Jabba's Palace |Hostile-Cannot be killed |- |Wookiee |Kashyyyk |Galactic Republic, Rebel Alliance |- |Wampa |Hoth (only in Hunt Mode) |Hostile |- |Tusken Raider |Mos Eisley (only in Hunt Mode) |Hostile |} In space combat, each faction will have capital ships. The capital ships (battleships) contain all starfighters and rooms, while the others attack nearby enemies and provide defense/fire support. With the exception of the hangar, the rooms in the battleships have auto-turrets in them that will fire on intruders, though they are not as powerful as the turrets used by the auto-turret bonus. The battleships have a few powerful rapid firing auto-turrets on the outside which can make short work of any type of ship, which a player can also manually control like other turrets, and the shields on the ship make destroying the turrets very difficult. The external turrets will cease firing if the auto-turret defense mainframe inside the ship is destroyed, though the internal turrets will still operate. The shield generator's destruction, also inside the ship, results in the shields outside the battleship being lowered, though sometimes a glitch in the game causes that to not happen, and although just shooting at the battleship will lower the shields, doing so takes considerable time and destroying the shield generator on the inside is much faster. However, the shield generator can be repaired, but it takes some time unless multiple players, playing as the Pilot class, chip in with their Fusioncutters to repair it faster, protecting the external targets for an additional amount of time. Battleships can't be destroyed, but they do have internal and external systems that can be. Outside of the previously mentioned shield generator and auto-turret defense mainframe, there is an externally mounted bridge, life-support systems, communications relay, short-range sensors, and engines. Internally the engine cooling tanks and the life support systems can also be destroyed on the inside. Destroying these, unlike the shields and defense mainframes, does not affect gameplay, but does award whoever destroys them a large sum of points, except in CTF. Internal systems take roughly 2-4 time bombs to destroy. External ones take dozens of bombs at the very least. The other ships are frigates, which cannot be boarded. The number of them that each side has varies from map to map. Unlike battleships, they can be destroyed, but are very durable so it takes time. The frigates have several turrets mounted on them that can make short work of incoming ships, but they won't always fire on a ship depending on how close or how far away they are. Despite their strong weapons, the frigates are very vulnerable to bombers and even a single one can take out a frigate with little difficulty if no fighters intervene. Destroying a frigate gives the same number of points to a side as destroying a system on a ship, except in a CTF match, but even in there it's likely a good idea to have a player destroy the enemy frigates to keep them from shooting their fighters down. If the player plays as an interceptor in the Kashyyyk space level then it's possible to fly up to the Droid control ships, Venator class star destroyers and Trade Federation Cruisers in the distance, which are in fact smaller, less realistic models which cause damage when flown into. *Battleship: Venator-class Star Destroyers *Frigate: Acclamator-class assault ships *Frigate: Victory II-class frigate (seen only in background) *Battleship: Providence-class carrier/destroyers *Frigate: Munificent-class star frigates *Battleship: Lucrehulk-class battleship (seen only in background and as stationary, not-doing-anything object in the Battle of Coruscant space map) *Battleship: Imperial-class Star Destroyers *Frigate: Victory II-class frigates *Battleship: Executor-class Star Dreadnoughts (seen only in background) *Battleship: Mon Calamari Star cruisers *Frigate: CR-90 corvettes *Frigate: GR-75 medium transport (on Hoth and Yavin 4 campaign space battle) Each faction (Republic, CIS, Rebel, Empire) features four different types of ships: *Bomber: (V-wing, CIS strike bomber, Y-wing, TIE bomber) Bombers are used to take out transports, shields, and ship main systems outside the capital ships. These ships carry high-yield proton bombs. They cannot lock bombs to enemy fighters and have significantly more armor than fighters and interceptors but not more than transports. *Multi-Purpose Fighter: (ARC-170 starfighter, Vulture droid starfighter, X-wing, TIE fighter) Fighters are all-purpose ships useful for any situation. These starfighters cannot perform specific functions as well as specialized craft. These ships have lock-on torpedoes, and have significantly more armor than interceptors, but not more than bombers and transports. *Scout Fighter/Interceptor: (Jedi interceptor, Droid tri-fighter, A-wing, TIE Interceptor) Interceptors are high-speed fighters used to dogfight other starfighters. Although these ships can take out starfighters with ease, these are low in power and armor. These ships generally hold cluster missiles and can lock onto targets very quickly. *Transport: (Republic gunship, HMP droid gunship, Alliance Assault Craft (LAAT/i), Theta-class T-2c shuttle) Transports are extremely high in defense, are the slowest and least maneuverable space units. These ships also have multiple positions, up to six, including a main gunner, second gunner, and passengers. Secondary weapons on the ship vary from faction to faction. The troop transports act as spawn points when landed: as long as a transport is manned by at least one pilot, infantry will continue to spawn from the transport. However, they cannot perform evasive maneuvers. Each faction uses three distinct types of vehicles. These vary in terms of speed, armor, and firepower. These types are : *Scout (74-Z speeder bike, the STAP, and the Tauntaun) Such vehicles are very fast but have little firepower and armor. The Tauntaun does not have any weapons. *Medium (TX-130S tank, the AAT, the Droid tank, and the Rebel combat landspeeder) This type of vehicles feature medium characteristics, having firepower. *Heavy vehicles (Spider droid and the AT-ST ). Heavy transports are massive vehicles that serve as mobile command posts. They possess amazing firepower and armor, but are very slow. They also cannot be sliced by enemy engineers and cannot be destroyed with a single landmine and function as mobile spawning points. These are the AT-TE for the Republic on Geonosis and Felucia and the AT-AT for the Empire on Hoth. The vehicles of the factions are ( not all vehicles available at every map ) : Confederacy of Independent Systems: *STAP (Scout vehicle) *AAT (Medium vehicle) *Tank Droid (Medium vehicle) *Hailfire Droid (Medium vehicle) *Spider Droid (Heavy vehicle) Galactic Republic: *BARC speeder (Scout vehicle) *TX-130S fighter tank (Medium vehicle) *AT-RT (Medium vehicle) *AT-TE (Heavy Transport) Galactic Empire: *Speeder Bike (Scout vehicle) *Saber-class fighter tank (Medium vehicle) *AT-ST (Heavy vehicle) *AT-AT (Heavy Transport) Rebel Alliance: *Speeder Bike (Scout) *Snowspeeder (Spacecraft; characteristics similar to an interceptor) *Tauntaun (Scout) *AAC-1 Hovertank (Medium vehicle) All vehicles have a critical hit point that, when struck with an explosive round, depletes, at the most, 70% of their health. The critical hit point is hard to see and even harder to hit. *AAC-1 speeder tank: Black coolant tanks on sides of tank *TX-130 Saber-class fighter tank and TX-130T fighter tank: Circle at rear of tanks *AT-TE: Cylindrical area along the underbelly *AT-AT: Neck between body and head *AAT: Rear panel *Droid Tank: Rear tread cylinder *Hailfire Droid: Cylinders below cockpit *AT-RT: Cylinder between legs or pilot *Homing Spider Droid: Where the legs connect to the body on the sides *AT-ST: Rear block between legs *LAAT/i Gunship: Cockpit *Theta-class shuttle: Lower neck *Droid Transport: Rear panel *STAP: Anywhere If players were to hit close to the critical hit location on a vehicle, they would do twice as much damage as a rocket launcher would regularly do (about 25-30%). Locking on to some of these vehicles at a adequate range and radius might lead the rocket to the critical point. In Battlefront II, there are no two maps that take place on the same planet excluding Tatooine and space levels, as this adds more variety to the missions. There are 18 land maps and six space maps in instant action (Space Coruscant and Space Mustafar are not in instant action). This means that Battlefront II has over five times as much variety as its predecessor had. Some space maps such as Space Coruscant and Space Mustafar are only available in Campaign mode, however all space maps are available in Galactic Conquest. {| !Planet !Location !Era(s) !Mode(s) !Heroes |- |Coruscant |Jedi Temple |Clone Wars, Galactic Civil War |Conquest, Campaign, 2 Flag CTF, Hero Assault (Xbox Live patch only) |Darth Maul (CIS), Darth Vader (Empire in Story Mode), Luke Skywalker (Rebels), Mace Windu (Republic), The Emperor (Empire) |- |Dagobah |Swamp near Yoda's hut |Clone Wars, Galactic Civil War |Conquest, 2 Flag CTF |Darth Vader (Empire), Yoda (Republic and Rebels), General Grievous (CIS) |- |Death Star |Interior |Clone Wars, Galactic Civil War |Conquest, Campaign, 1 Flag CTF |Emperor Palpatine (Empire, CIS), Luke Skywalker (Rebels), Obi-Wan Kenobi (Republic) |- |Felucia |Marshland |Clone Wars, Galactic Civil War |Conquest, Campaign, 1 Flag CTF |Aayla Secura (Republic), Jango Fett (CIS), Chewbacca (Rebels), Boba Fett (Empire) |- |Kamino |Clone Facility |Clone Wars, Galactic Civil War |Conquest, Campaign, 1 Flag CTF |Obi-Wan Kenobi (Republic), Jango Fett (CIS), Boba Fett (Empire), Han Solo (Rebels) |- |Kashyyyk |Beachhead |Clone Wars, Galactic Civil War |Conquest, Campaign, 2 Flag CTF, Hunt, Hero Assault (Xbox Live patch only), XL (PC only), |Chewbacca (Rebels), Jango Fett (CIS), Yoda (Republic), Boba Fett (Empire) |- |Mustafar |Refinery |Clone Wars, Galactic Civil War |Conquest, Campaign, 2 Flag CTF |Darth Vader in Anakin Skywalker form (Empire), Darth Maul (CIS), Gizor Dellso (CIS in Campaign mode), Obi-Wan Kenobi (Rebels, Republic) |- |Mygeeto |War-Torn City |Clone Wars, Galactic Civil War |Conquest, Campaign, 2 Flag CTF, Hero Assault (Xbox Live patch only) |Ki-Adi-Mundi (Republic), General Grievous (CIS), Boba Fett (Empire), Luke Skywalker (Rebels) |- |Naboo |Theed |Clone Wars, Galactic Civil War |Conquest, Campaign, 2 Flag CTF, Hunt, Hero Assault (Xbox Live patch only) |The Emperor (Empire), Darth Maul (CIS), Obi-Wan Kenobi (Republic), Princess Leia (Rebels) |- |Polis Massa |Medical/Mining Facility |Clone Wars, Galactic Civil War |Conquest, Campaign, 2 Flag CTF |The Emperor (Empire), Darth Maul (CIS), Princess Leia (Rebels), Yoda (Republic) |- |Tantive IV |Interior |Clone Wars, Galactic Civil War |Conquest, Campaign, 1 Flag CTF |Darth Vader (Empire), Princess Leia (Rebels), General Grievous (CIS), Yoda (Republic) |- |Tatooine |Jabba's Palace |Clone Wars, Galactic Civil War |Conquest, 1 Flag CTF |Boba Fett (Empire), Luke Skywalker (Rebels), Aayla Secura (Republic), Darth Maul (CIS) |- |Tatooine |Mos Eisley |Clone Wars, Galactic Civil War |Conquest, 2 Flag CTF, Hunt, Hero Assault (not available in Galactic Conquest) |Boba Fett (Empire), Darth Maul (CIS), Han Solo (Rebels), Obi-Wan Kenobi (Republic) |- |Utapau |Sinkhole |Clone Wars, Galactic Civil War |Conquest, Campaign, 1 Flag CTF |Obi-Wan Kenobi (Republic), General Grievous (CIS), Boba Fett (Empire), Han Solo (Rebels) |- |Yavin 4 |Temple |Clone Wars, Galactic Civil War |Conquest, Campaign, 1 Flag CTF |Boba Fett (Empire), Chewbacca (Rebels), Mace Windu (Republic), Darth Maul (CIS) |} Some maps are only available to one era. Every faction has a "Homeworld" {| !Battlefront !Location !Era(s) !Mode(s) !Heroes |- |Geonosis |Dust Plains |Clone Wars |Conquest, Campaign, 2 Flag CTF, Hunt, XL (PC only) |Mace Windu (Republic), Count Dooku (CIS) |- |Kamino |Tipoca City |Clone Wars |Conquest, Campaign, 1 flag CTF |Obi-Wan Kenobi (Republic), Jango Fett (CIS) |- |Hoth |Echo Base |Galactic Civil War |Conquest, Campaign, 1 flag CTF, Hunt, XL (PC only) |Pilot Luke Skywalker (Rebels), Darth Vader (Empire) |- |Endor |Bunker |Galactic Civil War |Conquest, 1 Flag CTF, Hunt |Darth Vader (Empire), Han Solo (Rebels) |} Space Coruscant *Location: Over the planet Coruscant *Era: Clone Wars, Galactic Civil War *Modes: Camapign, Galactic Conquest Space Hoth *Location: Over the planet Hoth *Era: Galactic Civil War *Modes: Space Assault, Galactic Conquest, Space CTF Space Yavin 4 *Location: Over the moon Yavin 4 *Era: Clone Wars, Galactic Civil War *Modes: Space Assault, Galactic Conquest, Campaign, Space CTF Space Mygeeto *Location: Over the planet Mygeeto *Era: Clone Wars, Galactic Civil War *Modes: Space Assault, Galactic Conquest, Space CTF Space Kashyyyk *Location: Over the planet Kashyyyk *Era: Clone Wars, Galactic Civil War *Modes: Space Assault, Galactic Conquest, Campaign, Space CTF Space Felucia *Location: Over the planet Felucia *Modes: Space Assault, Galactic Conquest, Space CTF Space Tatooine *Location: Over the planet Tatooine *Modes: Space Assault, Galactic Conquest, Space CTF Space Mustafar *Location: Over the planet Mustafar *Modes: Campaign, Galactic Conquest Space Endor *Location: Over the moon Endor *Modes: Galactic Conquest Space Polis Massa *Location: Over the asteroid colony Polis Massa *Modes: Galactic Conquest Space Naboo *Location: Over the planet Naboo *Modes: Galactic Conquest Space Geonosis *Location: Over the planet Geonosis *Modes: Galactic Conquest Space Dagobah *Location: Over the planet Dagobah *Modes: Galactic Conquest Space Kamino *Location: Over the planet Kamino *Modes: Galactic Conquest Space *Location: In open space *Modes: Galactic Conquest LucasArts released maps from the first game, bundled together for a $4.99 download for Xbox. Rhen Var *Location: Harbor *Modes: Conquest, Assault, Capture the Flag, Hunt *Era: Clone Wars, Galactic Civil War *Heroes: The Emperor (Empire), Chewbacca (Rebels), Kit Fisto (Republic), Asajj Ventress (CIS) Rhen Var *Location: Citadel *Modes: Conquest, Assault, Capture the Flag *Era: Clone Wars, Galactic Civil War *Heroes: Boba Fett (Empire), Han Solo (Rebels), Kit Fisto (Republic), Darth Maul (CIS) Bespin *Location: Cloud City *Modes: Conquest, Assault, Capture the Flag *Era: Clone Wars, Galactic Civil War *Heroes: Darth Vader (CTF and Conquest &ndash; Empire), Luke Skywalker (Conquest only &ndash; Rebels), Han Solo (CTF only &ndash; Rebels), Kit Fisto (CTF only &ndash; Republic), Aayla Secura (Conquest only &ndash; Republic), Asajj Ventress (CTF and Conquest &ndash; CIS) Yavin IV *Location: Arena *Modes: Conquest, Assault, Capture the Flag *Era: Clone Wars, Galactic Civil War *Heroes: Boba Fett (Empire), Luke Skywalker (Rebels), Anakin Skywalker (Republic), Asajj Ventress (CIS) The Geonosis, Utapau, Jedi Temple on Coruscant, Death Star, Kamino, Jabba's Palace and Felucia land missions and all but three of the space maps (Kashyyyk, Yavin 4 and open space) are not present in the PSP version of the game (although they can be found on the UMD and edited back into the game, only Geonosis, Coruscant and Utapau are complete and playable). Also missing but present on the UMD is an incomplete Rhen Var Citadel map, suggesting that Rhen Var Citadel would have been a PSP exclusive map prior to the Xbox update. Mustafar is also scaled back slightly (it does not include the Control Room or the conference room), although the PSP game's successor, Renegade Squadron, uses most of the original Mustafar map. Also present in the game is a unique feature during solo Conquest matches, where AI will become a certain map's hero if the player chooses to spawn as a hero. The ability to damage capital ships' critical systems from the inside, as well as self-manned turrets, is also missing from the game (although internal critical systems can be seen by running alongside a hangar wall while directing the camera against it). Also, the Training, Space Overview, and Rise of the Empire modes are not available. Instead of the campaign mode there is an alternative challenge mode with three different scenarios. Imperial enforcer &ndash; Players will travel to several planets, in which they must hunt down a set number of natives within a time limit. Locations include Naboo &ndash; Gungans, Mos Eisley &ndash; Jawas, Endor &ndash; Ewoks and their final destination will be Kashyyyk, where they must hunt down fifty Wookiees, they are however allowed one IFT-T. Players begin as a sniper, and their class choices will grow as they venture. Players are aided by Boba Fett. Rogue Assassin &ndash; Players are a Phase I Jet Trooper, carrying a clone's blaster rifle instead of an EMP launcher. Rogue Assassins must hunt down and kill specific targets, high ranking officers or deserters, in a time limit, on different planets. Planets include Dagobah &ndash; Three Imperial officers, Mygeeto &ndash; Three Imperial officers, Yavin 4 &ndash; Six Clone Commanders (two sets of three), Polis Massa &ndash; Six MagnaGuards (Two sets of three). Players only have one class choice, and the heroes are the Fetts(Jango and Boba). Rebel Raider &ndash; Players are a Rebel smuggler. They must acquire certain parts within a time limit. Players will travel to Mygeeto to collect three shield generator parts, then to Naboo to receive weaponry plans, then to Hoth to seek out Imperial probe droids, then in space they must land in the imperial hangar and transport goods back. Players are aided by Han Solo. Medals can be acquired for achieving special requirements in one life, however, players must achieve veteran status (Four medals) of that medal before they can use the award that comes with it. Players lose the medal once they die, but if they die within thirty seconds of acquiring the medal, then the award is available to them in the next life. When Elite status (32 medals) is achieved in a certain area, the requirements to earn a medal in that area are lowered (usually by one-fourth), allowing players to gain legendary status more easily. Once legendary status (sixty-four medals) of that medal is achieved players will automatically get the medal once you start the game. The Endurance medal is acquired after twelve points are earned in one life (nine with Elite status). Energy regeneration is awarded, this increases the speed of which the energy bar used for strenuous actions regenerates. The Guardian medal is awarded after twenty-four points are earned in one life (eighteen with Elite status). Damage Reduction is awarded, which makes enemy fire less damaging to the players. The War Hero medal is awarded after thirty-six points are earned in one life (twenty-seven with Elite status). Increased Damage is awarded, which increases the damage players' weapons do. The Frenzy medal is awarded after twelve kills with a Blaster Rifle in one life (nine with Elite status). The Elite Rifle is the award, which offers a more accurate three round burst firing rifle like Boba Fett's with less ammo. The Demolition medal is awarded after four critical hits on vehicle with a Rocket Launcher are gained in one life (three with Elite status). Remote Rockets are the award, these are guided rockets which home in on the target. This is the only award that does not replace the previous weapon. The Gunslinger medal is awarded after six kills with a Pistol in one life (four with Elite status). A Precision Pistol with greater damage, accuracy, faster rate of fire, and limited ammo is awarded. The Marksman medal is awarded after six head shots with sniper rifle are gained in one life (four with Elite status). The Beam Rifle is the award, which offers a beam that can pass through multiple enemies. The Regulator medal is awarded after eight kills with a Blast Cannon/Shotgun are gained in one life (six with Elite status). The award is a Flechette Shotgun, which is a more powerful shotgun, with more ammo than the regular shotgun. The Technician medal is awarded to players who manage to slice into a vehicle. The Vehicle Regeneration award is given which slowly regenerates the health of the vehicle the player drives next. The more medals they player has earned, the more men can be lead: If twenty medals are earned, players obtain the rank of sergeant and can lead two men; if one hundred are earned, players obtain the rank of captain and can lead three men; and if three hundred medals are earned, players obtain the rank of general and can lead four men. *Bob Bergen&mdash;Luke Skywalker *Christina Rumbley&mdash;Female Alliance Infantry *Corey Burton&mdash;Count Dooku; Imperial Officer 2; Ki Adi Mundi *Dave Boat&mdash;Republic Infantry *David W. Collins&mdash;Confederate Infantry (Battledroid); Confederate Officer (Battledroid); Droid Alarm *Denny Delk&mdash;Training Officer *James Arnold Taylor&mdash;Obi-Wan *Jamie Glover&mdash;General Veers; Imperial Officer 1; Sadistic Moff *Jonathan Cook&mdash;Republic Officer 2; Royal Guard *Joyce Kurtz&mdash;Princess Leia *Lex Lang&mdash;Han Solo; Imperial Infantry *Mat Lucas&mdash;Anakin Skywalker *Matthew Wood&mdash;General Grievous *Nick Jameson&mdash;Alliance Officer 2; Emperor Palpatine; Smarmy British Palpatine Ally *Rachel Reenstra&mdash;Aayla Secura *Scott Lawrence&mdash;Darth Vader *Steven Jay Blum&mdash;Male Alliance Infantry 1 *Steve Stanton&mdash;Alliance Officer 1; Ben Kenobi; Darth Maul *Terrence Carson&mdash;Mace Windu *Temuera Morrison&mdash;Boba Fett; Jango Fett; Republic Officer 1; Retired Clone Trooper *Timothy Omundson&mdash;Male Alliance Infantry 2; Rebellion Commander *Tom Kane&mdash;Imperial Officer 3; Yoda thumb|180px|[[Kit Fisto/Legends|Kit Fisto in Battlefront II.]] On January 31st 2006, downloable content was released allowing Xbox Live users for $4.99 to add multiple levels and two new Clone Wars heroes to their gaming experience. The download includes: *Kit Fisto: A Republic hero who is stronger and more bulky than most of the other heroes. His powers include Saber Throw, Force Water Orb and Force Destruction. *Asajj Ventress: A villainess who has fiber-cord linked lightsabers and is the CIS answer to Aayla Secura. Her powers are Starblades and Force Push. *Anakin Skywalker: While not actually a new hero, Anakin can be played on the Republic for the first time outside of the campaign. This Anakin is before his descent to the dark side and can only be played on the Yavin 4 Arena map. He has all the same abilities as the Imperial Anakin. *Bespin: Cloud City *Yavin 4: Arena *Rhen Var: Harbor *Rhen Var: Citadel thumb|right|150px|[[Asajj Ventress/Legends|Asajj Ventress in Battlefront II.]] NOTE: These maps are from the first game and, along with the Kashyyyk: Beachhead map, can be played in Hero Assault mode. *Rhen Var: Harbor &ndash; Wampa Hunt Wampas (claws) vs. Rebels (All Types) On February 15, 2006 a 1.1 patch was released for the PC version, which included support for additional maps. The modding tools were subsequently released by LucasArts and Pandemic Studios on February 22, and shipped with nearly everything used to make the game, including the mission files, special effects, fonts, and localizations, unlike its predecessor, BFBuilder, for the original Battlefront game. Sound effects and music used to make the game were not included because of copyright issues,BFBuilder ReadMe although it is possible to import original music and sound effects into the game. Map editing in BFBuilder is handled by a program called ZeroEdit, which is used to mold the landscapes, place objects, command posts and vehicle spawn points. Additional scripting is done through LUA files for maps, and ODF (Object Definition Files) files for objects. User-created levels and mods then go through a process called munging, which compiles assets and maps into formats readable by the game, which are then compiled into container files for in-game use. Although the Battlefront II mod tools are subtly different from BFBuilder, assets can be imported from the first into the second, and vice versa. *In the Polis Massa level, computer screens show diagrams of the Jedi Archives (these are the same diagrams that were seen in the Inside the Worlds of Star Wars: Attack of the Clones reference book). Also, the shortcut into Theed Royal Palace from Episode I can be seen. *Because Hero Assault Mode is meant mainly to be a "party mode", different songs, such as Jedi Rocks, Lapti Nek, Yub Nub, and both Mos Eisley cantina songs play in the background. *Although Temuera Morrison voiced Jango Fett, Boba Fett, and the retired clone trooper, he did not voice the clone troopers in-game. *Matthew Wood, who provided the voice of General Grievous in Star Wars: Episode III Revenge of the Sith, also voiced the infamous cyborg general in the video game. *Star Wars: Battlefront II is the top selling Star Wars video game, with over 6,000,000 copies sold. *In the PSP version of the game, during the Rebel Raider challenge on Hoth, the Empire controls the remaining Rebel Transport and the Destroyed Shield Generator, while the player controls the Imperial Echo Base, although players play as the Rebels. *Through modding, it has been discovered that more campaigns were to be in the game, such as a space battle between the Empire and Anti-Troopers, and even had their own lines for the cutscenes, but were taken out for unknown reasons. *It has also been discovered that the cutscenes of the game were to have additional lines, but were also taken out for unknown reasons. *During Galactic Civil War Battles, Imperials sometimes whistle The Imperial March and&mdash;though rarely&mdash;may swear during prolonged periods of heated battle, such as this . *During the Naboo Campaign, when the player's objective is to eliminate all of the Jedi, if the player kills a Naboo royal guard, a glitch may occure where it will be counted as a team kill and take away points. However, this glitch is extremely rare. *When a B2 super battle droid is blown apart, the flying parts are those of a B1. It is possible that this mistake was a scripting error or simply a choice made by developers to increase the game's efficiency through the use of fewer models and/or files. *The instruction manual incorrectly states that the sniper class uses recon droids. In truth, only specific unlockable classes (specifically, the IG-100 MagnaGuard, Clone Commander, Imperial Officer and Wookiee Warrior)have the recon droid in their secondary inventory. This typo may be due to the fact that the sniper class of the original Star Wars: Battlefront were equipped with recon droids. Recon droids may have been carried by the sniper class in an earlier version of the game, but may have been switched with auto-turrets to correct balancing issues. *In the intro to the Space Coruscant campaign, the Republic's Hangar Shields are red, when they should be blue. *In both the Kashyyyk and Mygeeto intro videos, a B1 Droid with blue markings is seen. This may be because in the original game, Assault Droids were blue instead of red. *In several cutscenes for the Empire campaign, such as Naboo and Kamino, an Imperial Engineer from Hoth is seen, despite there not being any in those levels. *Aboard the Tantive IV, the screens in the control room show the view of Kamino Obi-Wan saw in Star Wars: Episode II Attack of the Clones. This is somewhat confusing as there is no canonical mention of the Tantive IV ever visiting Kamino, and the in-game battle appears to be the same action conducted by Vader and the 501st Legion during the opening scenes of A New Hope, thus placing the ship above Tatooine. *Also on the Tantive IV, the main view shows elongated stars, even though the ship is actually in the hangar bay of an Imperial Star Destroyer. *On the Death Star map, a destructable vent in a hallway on the prison level leads to the trash compactor seen in Star Wars: Episode IV A New Hope. The walls of the trash compactor close in and kill the player. *TIE fighters can be seen in the Death Star hangar even during the "Clone Wars"-era Death Star battle. The Clone Wars-era battle onboard the Death Star is non-canon, as the Death Star was not completed until years after the end of the Clone Wars. *Darth Maul is a playable hero on some Clone Wars-era maps such as Yavin IV and Mustafar, even though he was defeated at least a decade prior to most battles in the game, none of which have him after he reappeared. The clones may say, "Darth Maul? What's he going to do? Bleed all over us?" when he is first summoned to the field. Obviously, his appearance is non-canon, due to his natural legs still being attached to his body. *Occasionally, a clone will say "Look out! It's Major Malevolent, uh, General Grievous!" when the player is playing as General Grievous. *If Jango Fett enters the battlefield, clone troopers can occasionally be heard shouting "Fett's here. And he brought his head!". This is a reference to Episode II where Jango Fett is beheaded by Mace Windu; needless to say, his role in Battlefront II's Clone Wars-era battles is non-canonical. *There is also a possibility that a clone will tell Jango "Hey, Jango! Can I have your autograph?" This was obviously placed in there as a comical line, considering many clones didn't think highly of their Separatist-allied template. *One of the load screens for the Death Star: Interior map is an obvious screenshot from an earlier version of the game, as the command posts are colored green, while in the final version of the game, friendly command posts are blue. Other loading screens for the game's maps--i.e. the Tantive IV--are similarly taken from the original Battlefront, as they show either older CP color schemes or older character skins. *One of the load screens for the Felucia map has Aayla Secura with a blue and purple lightsaber, even on the non-PSP versions of the game. At the Republic ending of the Galactic Conquest, Aayla has her purple lightsaber and a green command post can be seen in the background, possibly meaning that Aayla originally had a purple lightsaber in all versions of the game. *In the intro to the Space Kashyyyk campaign, a Clone Pilot is seen falling in space. This can be achieved by taking off and landing quickly on the edge of the hangar and exiting an aircraft, and walking off the ship and into space, although there is gravity and the player will fall instead of being slowly dragged toward the planet. *The Hunt mode for Kashyyyk has the Wooden Barricades and Gate Wench for the Wookiee's team as the opposite team's structures. This is clearly a glitch and can be annoying if the player is playing as the Wookiees, as they will attack and destroy their own defenses. *The heroes Anakin Skywalker and Obi-wan Kenobi have the same lightsaber attack combos, as do Luke Skywalker and Ki-Adi-Mundi (though the latter pair have different dash attacks and Force skills). Also, both pairs play on the same planet during conquest modes (Mustafar and Mygeeto, respectively). *On the Death Star map, when playing as Darth Sidious in the Clone Wars era, the clones can be heard shouting things such as "Surround Palpatine!" - yet another non-canonical quote by Republic infantry. In reality, the entire clone army was truly under the command of Darth Sidious himself for the duration of the Clone Wars. *On Coruscant, Vulture Droid Starfighters can be in the sky, although faintly. *In Jabba's palace, if an AI is picked up by the Rancor, that character will spew health and ammo packs when shot. This also happens in Battlefront I with the Sarlacc. *There is a glitch with the Award Pistol concerning Han Solo. After this award is earned with the 'Legendary' status, if the player chooses to play as Han Solo in any map (including Mos Eisley Assault), if the player switches to the Fusioncutter, the player will be unable to switch back to the pistol unless they respawn. **A similar glitch occurs with the Anti-Trooper in the PSP version of the game - if the player earns Frenzy or Guardian awards, the player will not be able to use the award weapon or the original weapon without respawning. *On space maps, if the player lands a starfighter just before it exits or enters a battleship's hangar shield and exits the fighter, it becomes possible to walk around the outer edges of the ship. On certain levels, it is possible to jump down on top of nearby frigates. *When playing as The Emperor, the lightsaber is deactivated and hidden unless you press the attack key. When he is finished executing his attack combo, he puts it away again (if you continue to press the attack key, he still puts it away, then immediately takes it out again). *When playing as Darth Maul, if the attack button is held down near the end of the attack sequence, he will do an extra twirl of his double-bladed lightsaber. This is an additional attack that will still harm enemies. *When playing as the Republic on Geonosis in Galactic Conquest, the clones still have Phase I Armor. *Jango Fett carries one Precision Pistol (the award pistol) instead of two WESTAR-34 blaster pistols. *Characters can enter the vulture droid and almost all other CIS spaceships as a vehicle; when flying in space, the droid computer's voice will sound at various points even if the pilot is an organic. *In the PC instruction manual, on page 13, it shows a picture of Luke Skywalker in his Tatooine outfit from Episode IV (Luke's Tatooine farmer attire), even though you cannot play as Luke in that outfit in the game. *During the deactivation of Xbox LIVE for all Xbox Original games, Star Wars: Battlefront II was recognized for having the second largest online community still playing the game prior to the online multiplayer deactivation on April 15, 2010 with the largest being the online community for . *In the mission, Amongst the Ruins, LAAT dropships are actively used during the battle. However, the models used in the level are the variations for the first Battlefront which use different weapons from their Space Battle counterparts. In addition, Amongst the Ruins, Underground Ambush, and Operation: Knightfall are the only missions to utilize Battlefront I variations of airborne vehicles (which have controls and movements that are scripted to an AI and cannot be commandeered). *In the game, the retired clone trooper narrating the campaign encounters every battle from Geonosis to Hoth. However, due to the shortened lifespan of Fett clones, first-generation or especially Spaarti, the last battle this trooper would've encountered, at best, would probably have been the battle of Naboo, as the entire campaign was spread over a period of roughly 25 years. This means the trooper would've been over 90 human years old due to accelerated aging and still fighting, something impossible. This is also referenced at times when the trooper says things like "20 years after we were created" before the clone rebellion on Kamino and "I'd fought with some of those men for over 20 years" before the space battle of Yavin. This implies that perhaps some of the troopers of the 501st were given something to prevent accelerated aging and therefore were able to fight in such historic battles as Hoth. This is supported by the fact that other Fett clones appear in the Expanded Universe, some of them years after the Battle of Endor. *When playing as Darth Vader, players will notice that he holds his Lightsaber in his right hand. However, when using the dash attack, the strike places the lightsaber in the left hand. This is a glitch as there is no transition of the lightsaber between hands. *When playing on Felucia, small pockets in the earth seep toxic red gas. The gas will slowly deteriorate an organic's health, while droids go unharmed. *When playing as Han Solo, stormtroopers will say things like "Dirty Smuggler" or "It's Han Solo, and he's shooting first! That's not fair!" *In the game, Aayla Secura uses two lightsabers at once in battle, one blue, and one green (purple in the PSP version). However, in other Star Wars material such as "The Clone Wars." and comic books, she is only seen using one blue lightsaber. *Star Wars Battlefront Classic Collection adds Hero Assault to all ground-based maps, including Jabba's Palace. Unlike other maps that omit the native species in this mode, the Gamorreans guarding the palace are retained and treated as a separate faction from the playable ones. They will attack both hero and villain indiscriminately, including bounty hunters Jango and Boba Fett, the latter of which Jabba is a regular client of. *In the Trailer for Star Wars: Battlefront II, there's a clip where a Battle droid is sniping a Gungan on Naboo in the Great Grass Plains, and also a Rebel Vanguard with a Battlefront I Skin on the Death Star. The HUD in these scenes are identical to Battlefront I's HUD. It is possible that this was showing an early version of the Naboo Hunt mode. *In the trailer, the Millennium Falcon is seen in a Death Star hangar bay. This scene is not seen in the final version of the game. *In the trailer, the Jedi Temple is shown during daytime. *The layouts of the hangars of the capital ships are different in the trailer. *A different layout for Utapau was shown in in the trailer. This layout was also shown in in-game movies. *Ships appeared to be pilotable on planet surface maps in the trailer; however this feature was removed from the final game with the exception of rebel speeders in the Hoth level. *The Republic Cruiser in the trailer looks completely different from the game. *The voices of the Rebels and Imperials are the same in the trailer as the first Battlefront. *The layouts of many maps were changed between the release of the trailer and the final game. *Space battles appeared to have more capital ships than the final game, with different layouts for the battles. *The trailer shows the beta Geonosis map shown in trailers for the original Star Wars: Battlefront. *The interior design of the Star Destroyer hangars in the trailer were designed to resemble the Death Star hangars. However, in the final game, the Star Destroyer hangars were remodeled. *The clone trooper in the Mustafar scene uses a different reloading sound effect from the one used in the final version of the game. *In one of the Kamino scenes, the sound effect for a firing Commando Pistol was used for a Clone Blaster Rifle. The game has content that was cut but included either with the mod tools or indicated in the game's files: *Voice-overs for two additional heroes, the Emperor's Royal Guard and Ben Kenobi. *Voice-overs for units using weapons they did not have in the final game, such as the Rebel Marksman dispensing ammo packs or fusion cutters. *A second Imperial Officer model wearing its standard-issue uniforms. *An Imperial Officer set up to use in a hunt mode. *Acklay were supposed to appear as natives on the Conquest version of Felucia. *Dialogue for cross-era modes, such as Republic versus the Empire. *Infantry Support Platforms were meant to appear in the game. *Starfighters forming squadrons was an unfinished and uncompleted feature. *Gizor Dellso *Grievous *Obi-Wan Kenobi *Darth Maul *Ki-Adi-Mundi *Leia Organa *Palpatine *Retired clone trooper *Aayla Secura *Anakin Skywalker / Darth Vader *Luke Skywalker *Han Solo *Jabba Desilijic Tiure *Maximilian Veers *Asajj Ventress *Victor Echo One Two *Mace Windu *Yoda *Unidentified Jedi Master 1 *Unidentified Jedi Master 2 *Unidentified Jedi Master 3 *See also: List of computer-controlled character names in Battlefront games |organisms= *Acklay *Tauntaun *Rancor **Jabba's rancor |droids= *Analysis droid **SP-4 analysis droid *B-series battle droid **B1-series battle droid **B2 super battle droid *Confederate infantry prototype *Droideka *Droid tri-fighter *OOM-series battle droid *FX-series medical assistant droid *GNK power droid *Heavy Missile Platform *IG-100 MagnaGuard *IG-227 Hailfire-class droid tank *Mark IV recon droid *NR-N99 Persuader-class droid enforcer *OG-9 homing spider droid *R4 astromech droid *R2-series astromech droid *Variable Geometry Self-Propelled Battle Droid, Mark I |events= *Clone Wars **Battle of Coruscant **First Battle of Geonosis **Battle of Kashyyyk **Battle of Mygeeto **Battle of Utapau **Battle of Felucia *Great Jedi Purge **Operation: Knightfall *Imperial Era **Battle of Naboo (Imperial Period) **Battle of Mustafar (Imperial Period) **Kamino uprising *Galactic Civil War **Battle of Hoth **Operation Skyhook ***Death Star Uprising ***Battle of Tatooine (Galactic Civil War) ***Yavin blockade ****Strike on Yavin 4 ***Raid on Polis Massa |locations= *Bespin **Cloud City *Coruscant **Jedi Temple ***Jedi Archives ***Jedi Temple central security station ***Jedi Temple communication center *Dagobah **Yoda's Hut *Death Star 1 *Endor **Endor shield generator bunker *Felucia *Geonosis *Hoth **Echo Base *Kamino **Tipoca City *Kashyyyk **Kachirho ***Kashyyyk Seagate Wall *Mustafar **Klegger Corp Mining Facility **Techno Union droid factory *Mygeeto **Unidentified Mygeeto city *Naboo **Theed *Polis Massa **Polis Massa outpost *Rhen Var **Rhen Var Harbor ***Rhen Var Citadel *Tatooine **Mos Eisley **Dune Sea ***Jabba's Palace *Utapau **Pau City *Yavin 4 **Massassi Temple |organizations= *Alliance to Restore the Republic *Confederacy of Independent Systems **Count **Separatist Council **Techno Union *Galactic Empire/Galactic Republic **Grand Army of the Republic ***Clone sharpshooter ***Stormtrooper ***182nd Legion ***501st Legion ***212th Attack Battalion **Emperor **Jedi Order ***Jedi Knight ***Jedi Master ***Padawan *Order of the Sith Lords **Dark Lord of the Sith **Sith Lord |species= *Bothan *Cerean *Ewok *Gamorrean *Geonosian *Gungan *Human *Hutt *Jawa *Kaleesh *Nautolan *Rattataki *Tusken Raider *Twi'lek *Wampa *Wookiee *Zabrak |vehicles= *74-Z speeder bike *AAC-1 speeder tank *Acclamator-class assault ship *Aggressive ReConnaissance-170 starfighter *All Terrain Armored Transport *All Terrain Recon Transport *All Terrain Tactical Enforcer *All Terrain Scout Transport *Alpha-3 Nimbus-class V-wing starfighter *Armored Assault Tank *BARC speeder *Belbullab-24 strike bomber *BTL Y-wing starfighter *CR90 corvette **Tantive IV *Dowager Queen *Eta-2 Actis-class interceptor *Executor-class STAR Dreadnought *GR-75 medium transport *Hardcell-class interstellar transport *Imperial II-class Star Destroyer *Low Altitude Assault Transport/infantry *Lucrehulk-class battleship *Lucrehulk-class core ship **Unlimited Projection *MC80 Home One type Star Cruiser *Munificient-class star frigate *Providence-class carrier/destroyer *RZ-1 A-wing interceptor *Sentinel-class landing craft *T-47 airspeeder **Snowspeeder *T-65 X-wing starfighter *TIE/IN interceptor *TIE/ln space superiority starfighter *TIE/sa bomber *Theta-class T-2c shuttle *TX-130 Saber-class fighter tank *TX-130T fighter tank *Single Trooper Aerial Platform *Venator-class Star Destroyer *Victory II-class frigate |technology= *1.4 FD P-Tower *Ammo canister *Arc caster *Armor **Clone trooper armor ***Clone scout trooper armor ***Phase I clone trooper armor ***Phase II clone trooper armor **Stormtrooper armor *Bacta tank *Blaster **Blaster cannon ***Z-6 rotary blaster cannon **Blaster Carbine ***DC-15S ***EE-3 carbine rifle **Blaster rifle ***DC-15A blaster rifle ***DH-17 blaster rifle ***E-5 blaster rifle ***E-11 blaster rifle ***Wrist blaster **Blaster pistol ***DC-17 hand blaster ***DL-44 heavy blaster pistol ***ELG-3A blaster pistol ***SE-14 blaster pistol ***SE-14r light repeating blaster ***TriShot ***WESTAR-34 blaster pistol **Geonosian sonic blaster **Repeating blaster **Shotgun ***Blast cannon ***CR-1 blaster cannon **Sporting blaster ***Defender sporting blaster **Sniper rifle ***DC-15x sniper rifle ***E-5s sniper rifle ***E-11s sniper rifle ***E-17d sniper rifle *Bowcaster *Cloning tank *Concussion missile *Concussion missile launcher **HM-6 Concussion Missile Launcher *Cybernetics **Darth Vader's armor *Deflector shield *Detonation pack *DF.9 *DSS-02 shield generator *Electromagnetic pulse launcher *Energy collector core *Energy crystal *F-187 fusioncutter *Flamethrower **ZX miniature flame projector *Garbage compactor *Grenade **Thermal detonator ***Baradium-core code key thermal detonator ***Class-A thermal detonator ***V-1 thermal detonator *Grenade launcher **HH-4 grenade launcher **RD-4 radiation launcher **V-6d mortar launcher *Harpoon and tow cable *Holocron **Sith holocron *Incinerator rifle *Ion blaster *Jetpack **JT-12 jetpack **Z-6 jetpack *Laser cannon **Composite-beam laser *Life support *Lightsaber **Linksabers *Mass-driver cannon *Mine **3HX3 timer mine **HX2 antipersonnel mine **KE-6b mine *Orbital strike beacon *Proton bomb *Proton torpedo *Shock rifle *Slugthrower **Tusken Cycler **LR1K sonic cannon *Stealth field generator *Superlaser *Wrist rocket **MM9 mini concussion rocket launcher |miscellanea= *Body bag *Fire *The Force **Dark Side of the Force ***Force lightning ****Force storm **Forcequake **Force speed **Telekinesis ***Force choke ***Force push/pull ***Force flight ***Force jump ***Lightsaber Throw ***Force Orb *Language **Basic ***"Meatbag" **Huttese ***"Bantha poodoo" *Lightsaber combat *Orange frilled mushroom *Plasma *Plastoid *Water }} *Star Wars Insider 85 Category:Battlefront series Category:First-person shooters Category:Legends console and computer games Category:LucasArts games Category:Third-person shooters