1027
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Tal%27dira
Tal'dira
6019

Tal'dira was a male Twi'lek warrior who served as a member of the small military force that Ryloth possessed. He would later bring his squadron to join Wedge Antilles's side during the Bacta War against Ysanne Isard. He then joined the famed Rogue Squadron after the conflict and participated in the Hunt for Zsinj. At some unknown point, he was captured by agents of Warlord Zsinj and brainwashed to kill Antilles at a given signal. He was activated prior to the Battle of Jussafet Four, where he committed suicide rather than lose his honor. In 7 ABY,The Essential Reader's Companion the male Twi'lek Tal'dira commanded a squadron of modified TIE Fighters nicknamed Chir'daki. Tal'dira and five of his squadron's pilots arrived at the Kala'uun Starport on Ryloth during Rogue Squadron's mission to procure ryll kor, after discovering that Koh'shak, the starport master, had hidden the Rogues' arrival from him in the hopes of profiting from their need for ryll. Initially challenging Rogue Leader Commander Wedge Antilles to a duel, Tal'dira revealed the starport master as his true target, and after shaming him for his greed, promised Antilles the ryll as a gift between warriors. Later, he and eleven other Twi'lek pilots joined Antilles's Rogues in the Bacta War against Ysanne Isard. After successfully liberating the planet Thyferra from Isard, the Rogues were invited back into the New Republic Armed Forces. Nawara Ven was unable to continue as a pilot due to injuries he sustained and as a result, Tal'dira was invited to join the Rogues. The Rogues were next assigned to General Han Solo's fleet, which was tasked to hunt down Warlord Zsinj. Stationed aboard the Mon Calamari MC80B Star Cruiser Mon Remonda, the Rogues took part in many battles, often flying alongside Antilles's new Wraith Squadron. During the campaign, Tal'dira was one of the many victims of Zsinj's brainwashing experiment, and he was activated to kill Antilles with the trigger phrase "Wedge Antilles hops on one transparisteel leg." Fellow Rogue Corran Horn was forced to shoot him down, but before Horn did so, Tal'dira was affected by comments about his dishonorable attack on Antilles. He reduced all power from his forward shields as Horn flew towards him, effectively committing suicide. *X-Wing: The Krytos Trap *X-Wing: The Bacta War *X-Wing: Iron Fist *X-Wing: Solo Command *Star Wars Encyclopedia *A Guide to the Star Wars Universe, Third Edition, Revised and Expanded *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Antilles's Rogues Category:Males Category:Rogue Squadron personnel Category:Twi'leks