1024
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Tol_Sivron
Tol Sivron
6161

Tol Sivron was a male Twi'lek and former member of the Head Clan of Ryloth before being exiled. After making his escape from his homeworld, Sivron later became a manager for the Imperial Department of Military Research, and Chief Administrator of the Maw Installation. In his early life, Sivron served as a member of the Head Clan on Ryloth. When chosen, it was expected that he would serve in the Head Clan for many years. However, about one year afterward, another member of the Head Clan fell while inspecting a project, and impaled himself. Sivron and the three other members of the Head Clan were then cast out. Sivron convinced the three other members to pool their resources, and try to eke out a living in one of the nearby uninhabited caves. While the other former Head Clan members slept, Sivron murdered all of them. He then took their supplies, and set out in a trek across the desert. Eventually he came upon an Imperial refueling station on Ryloth, where he met a young Moff named Wilhuff Tarkin. Tarkin soon found that Sivron was an excellent manager of the complex business arrangements that Tarkin had. Eventually, Tarkin assigned Tol Sivron as the Chief Administrator of Maw Installation's research facilities. For over ten years, Sivron ran the facility that produced such weapons as the Death Star I and Sun Crusher. When the facility was invaded by New Republic forces, Sivron escaped with the other scientists onboard the Death Star prototype that was in orbit around the facility. He took the weapon to Kessel, and used the superlaser to destroy the planet's Garrison Moon, which proved the effectiveness of the weapon. He returned to the Maw Installation to destroy it rather than allow it to fall into Rebel hands, however Sivron died when the Death Star prototype fell into a nearby black hole, after he attempted to chase and destroy the stolen Sun Crusher that had begun firing on the battle station. Tol Sivron didn't like making decisions himself and instead preferred to follow procedure to the letter. He was very bureaucratic in his nature and based most of his life around committee meetings. He also never liked to take blame himself and when things went wrong, he would attribute them to the failings of others or with the appropriate procedure, rather than himself. thumb|Tol Sivron with [[Bevel Lemelisk.]] Tol Sivron was created by author Kevin J. Anderson. Sivron's rigid following of station protocol is a parody of protocol enforced by the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, where Anderson worked for twelve years. *Death Star *Jedi Search *Dark Apprentice *Champions of the Force *Young Jedi Knights: Delusions of Grandeur *The Essential Guide to Characters *The Essential Guide to Vehicles and Vessels *The Jedi Academy Sourcebook *Star Wars Encyclopedia *Star Wars: Behind the Magic *The Essential Chronology *The New Essential Guide to Weapons and Technology *The New Essential Chronology *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia *The Essential Guide to Warfare *Death Star Owner's Technical Manual Category:Galactic Empire science and engineering personnel Category:Individuals with he/him pronouns Category:Males Category:Twi'leks