1081
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Lorell_Raiders
Lorell Raiders
5772

|dissolved=c. 3000 BBY |restored= |affiliation= }} The Lorell Raiders were a pirate group in the Hapes Cluster, a closely packed star cluster located in the Inner Rim of the galaxy, some time before 4000 BBY. Male-dominated, they would plunder countless planets beyond the hazardous Transitory Mists, seizing ships and stealing cargo, and would abduct beautiful human women as prizes to the hidden worlds of the Hapes Cluster and raised their children, and targeted the trade routes of the Galactic Republic. After all the male pirates were wiped out by the Galactic Republic and Jedi Order, their descendants, mostly women and children, vowed that no man will never rule them again and formed a matriarchal society called the Hapes Consortium and due to isolated gene pool, they evolved into species of near-human known as the Hapans. They learned of safe routes through the hazardous Transitory Mists that surrounded the cluster, the first to find the only suspected hyperspace entry route into the Hapes Cluster, and took refuge there along with a number of abductees, along with any other treasure they would plunder, such as ships and cargo. The Lorell Raiders expanded into a powerful, albeit loose, confederacy of pirates and also would abduct beautiful human women and bring them back to Hapes where the women would stay on Hapes and raise their children, only returning to Hapes to rest after each raid. Life for the captured denizens was one of misery, where the captured women were casually sold among the pirates as slaves. The Lorell Raiders had eventually began to target the trade routes of the Galactic Republic, having grown too bold and amassing the majority of their forces for an extended campaign of plundering unimpeded, with only the women, children, and a handful of enforcers were left behind, this practice went on for many years, however they were mostly wiped out over Lorell after refusing to surrender around 4030 BBY by an awaiting Republic taskforce led by the Jedi under Arca Jeth. Cut off from retreat, the Lorell Raiders fought to the end and were destroyed. Following this, the women who had been forced into servitude began a short, bloody, revolt that saw the removal of the last remaining Lorell Raiders and instituted a new matriarchal society, the Hapes Consortium, where no man would ever govern, ruled instead by an all-powerful Queen Mother. Due to an isolated gene pool, became the near-Human Hapans, who went on to develop a strong hatred of the Jedi for the death they brought to the raiders. *The Courtship of Princess Leia *The New Jedi Order: Agents of Chaos II: Jedi Eclipse *The New Jedi Order: Agents of Chaos II: Jedi Eclipse abridged audiobook *Legacy of the Force: Tempest *Legacy of the Force: Tempest abridged audiobook *The Essential Guide to Characters *Pirates & Privateers *Cracken's Threat Dossier *The New Essential Chronology *The New Essential Guide to Alien Species *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia *The Essential Atlas *Galaxy at War Category:Enslaver organizations Category:Inner Rim organizations Category:Pirate organizations