1110
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Star_Wars:_Shadows_of_the_Empire
Star Wars: Shadows of the Empire
66220

Star Wars: Shadows of the Empire was a multimedia project released by Lucasfilm in 1996. A multitude of products were released, including a novel, comic series, video game, trading cards, soundtrack, and toy line. The story is an interquel between the films Star Wars: Episode V The Empire Strikes Back and Star Wars: Episode VI Return of the Jedi. The following is a summary of all sources of the Shadows of the Empire saga, including some information from the tie-ins: left|thumb|The Battle of Hoth Hotshot smuggler and mercenary Dash Rendar, with his droid co-pilot, Leebo, arrived at Hoth to deliver the usual food supplies to the secret Rebel base there, along with some assault blasters for Princess Leia Organa. When he docked in the hangar, he was surprised to run into Han Solo, who had become involved with the Rebellion since their last meeting. Their meeting was cut short because of an advancing Imperial force. Dash instructed Leebo to load their cargo into the evacuating transports and to retrieve their payment as he joined Rogue Squadron for the upcoming battle. On Solo's recommendation, Commander Luke Skywalker agreed to give Rendar an unused snowspeeder for combat. In the ensuing battle, Dash flew against the approaching walkers, AT-STs and Viper probe droids, succeeding in destroying some of the AT-AT walkers before the Imperials destroyed the Base's deflector shield generator, and the Rebels were forced to withdraw. Dash was left behind as the base was overrun by snowtroopers, who destroyed the main generators. Leebo warned Rendar that the hangar doors of Bay 3 could not be opened to allow the Outrider to leave until power was restored. Fighting his way through the Imperial forces, Rendar proceeded to the base's lower level and activated the emergency generators, restoring power to the hangar door. As he made his way back to Bay 3, he ended up before an AT-ST, which he managed to destroy by using seeker missiles from his modified blaster pistol. Leebo took control of the Outrider, leading it through the Hoth asteroid belt while Rendar used the ship's gun turret to fend off the TIE fighter and TIE bomber attackers. After clearing the asteroids, the Outrider jumped to safety and Rendar rejoined the Rebels. Aboard the Redemption, Leia was informed that an Imperial Strike-class cruiser had spotted the fleet. Wedge Antilles led the Rogues into a space battle so that their rendezvous point remained secret. Leia, meanwhile, understood that Luke was different after his encounter with Darth Vader and wondered what happened between them. On the Executor, Vader was contacted by Palpatine, who chastised him for his failure to capture Luke on Bespin. He then ordered Vader to conclude shipping arrangements of the Death Star II plans with the Black Sun crimelord Prince Xizor; a discussion which Xizor oversaw being a guest to the Imperial Palace. Xizor realized that this young Skywalker who was being hunted by the two Lords of the Sith might be related to Vader. On his way out, Xizor explained to his servant Guri, that he intended to kill Luke and discredit Vader, while improving his prestige before the Emperor. Guri made her arrangements with bounty hunters and Xizor was ready to meet Jabba the Hutt. The Slave I, carrying Han Solo in a carbonite block, exited hyperspace above Tatooine, and Boba Fett hoped to deliver it to Jabba; but discovered that a signal beacon&mdash;installed when he was on Cloud City&mdash;was activated. The IG-2000 arrived, and he had a dangerous encounter with IG-88D, who intended to claim the bounty of Solo. Slave I sustained some damage but Fett outwitted the droid. Thinking that it was destroyed, Fett retreated to the planet Gall for repairs; but the droid also managed to survive and limped off to Ord Mantell to search for spare parts for its ship in the planet's scrapyard. Luke and Leia ended up on Tatooine. Luke had performed a Jedi mind trick to the guard of a circus tent, and practiced his abilities on the acrobat string, while contemplating his training with Yoda, the Force, and his meeting with Vader. Leia slept inside Ben Kenobi's hut and had a nightmare, remembering the capture of Han and their last kiss. Xizor, in his palace, pondered his plans to overthrow Vader, as well as his other underground business, such as hiring the Pike Sisters and meeting his lieutenant Mayth Duvel, who gave him a precious rare ruby from Nezriti Organization; it did not impress Xizor in the least. In his castle, Vader tested his injured shoulder by battling an ASP droid with a lightsaber, while briefing his agent, Wrenga "Jix" Jixton about his foresight that Luke would approach Jabba to rescue Han. Jix was sent to Tatooine to join Jabba's gang both to capture Luke, and to ensure his survival. thumb|Dash confronts IG-88D Meanwhile, Lando wanted to redeem himself of his treachery and sent Rendar to discover traces of Han Solo. Having tracked IG-88D to Ord Mantell, he was sent there to learn Fett's whereabouts. IG-88D hid in a salvage plant which, as Leebo's scans showed, was connected with a hover train. Rendar traveled from train car to train car, fighting trainyard vagrants and automated defenses along the way until he reached one whose tracks run parallel to those of the train that lead to his destination. As the two trains moved alongside each other, Rendar leapt across the gap and made his way to the front. Leebo then managed to remotely jam the hovertrain's auto-brakes, causing it to crash and break the door of the salvage plant. Inside, Rendar found IG-88D, who revealed that he had indeed tracked Fett to the Zhar system. Unwilling to let Rendar stop him from taking Solo from Fett, the droid opened fire. Rendar fought back and defeated the droid. Back on Tatooine, Leia and Chewie waited in Chalmun's Spaceport Cantina for Lando, as Chewie defended Leia, who was being harassed by suspicious figures. Finally, Lando showed up with C-3PO and R2-D2 and narrated Rendar's information that Han had been found. On Coruscant, Vader finished his diplomatic debate with Xizor, during which he attempted to look superior and more polite than Vader. Finally, the two arranged 300 ships from Xizor Transport Systems (XTS) for the construction of the Death Star II on Endor. Xizor walked in a luxury hall while a man, Hoff, made an assassination attempt against him; Xizor killed him single-handedly. The event was watched by Palpatine and Vader, who suspected that Palpatine orchestrated the attempt to test Xizor. Luke, in Kenobi's hut, attempted to construct a new lightsaber following a book left for him by Ben. He pondered his memories of him and the adventures in Cloud City when he saw his Rebel friends coming. They told him about Fett's whereabouts; while thinking on how to get there and approach the bounty hunter, Chewie proposed to ask help from the Rebellion. thumb|left|Green's death On Coruscant, Xizor was in a meeting of Black Sun "Vigos." Several agents were present: Durga, Kreet'ah, Clezo, Wumdi, Perit, and Green. Knowing Green's ambitions and network of double agents, Guri strangled him in order to intimidate other ambitious Vigos and make a point that Xizor does not tolerate such cooperatives. When the meeting concluded, Xizor summoned Jabba to meet him. Vader, naked in his medical chamber, pondered his meeting with Luke. He attempted to Force heal a part of his body and succeeded, but the satisfaction cut his tie with the dark side and the healing collapsed. Rendar headed to the Imperial moon base on Gall in the Zhar system to confirm Fett's presence. Having landed in Smuggler's Gorge, he made his way through Imperial patrols along the cliffside before reaching the entrance to the base through which he fought his way to the observation tower. Once there, he accessed the computer and learns that Fett was docked in the second tower, on the other side of the nearby canyon. Stealing a jetpack, Rendar crossed the canyon and arrived to a large hangar containing an AT-ST. After disabling it, he opened and followed the facility's ventilation system near a waiting hoversled with which he reached the Slave I. But Fett was also there; the two mercenaries dueled in the air with their jetpacks until Fett fleed to his ship. Slave I took off and Fett tried to aim its weapons against Rendar, who was able to damage the ship with his various ammunitions from his modified blaster pistol. As Luke continued tampering with the lightsaber jewel in the company of his friends, Lando arrived, bringing confirmation by Rendar that Slave I was on Gall. Meanwhile, Xizor welcomed Jabba, who came from Tatooine. During their conversation, Jabba gave up that the smuggler Solo was an affiliate to Skywalker, and that his delivery was delayed. When Jabba left, Guri put out the information that the bounty hunters after Skywalker would be advised to locate Boba Fett. Meanwhile, the rebels were on board the Millennium Falcon on their way to Gall's moon, Kile. Chewie played a game with Threepio, and Lando made a failed attempt to prepare "Giju stew" for dinner. thumb|right|The Battle of Gall Luke, Leia, Lando, and Chewie met Wedge and the Rogues on Kile and were reintroduced to Dash Rendar. Wedge briefed the new arrivals on the layout of the Imperial base and two Star Destroyers, each with a wing of starfighters. Skywalker proposed an attack, drawing off the defending TIE fighters, while Rendar led the Falcon and its crew to Fett's coordinates. After his defeat to Rendar, Fett met Bossk and Zuckuss in a cantina, who negotiated with him to share the bounty of Han. He firmly refused and took out a sniper placed to ambush him. Then his system warned him that Slave I had been breached. Vader was in his castle doing lightsaber training with an ASP droid. The slight ache in his shoulder where Luke had cut through his armor during their fight felt better to him. Meanwhile the Rogue Squadron attacked the Star Destroyers above Gall, and Luke honed his Force skills. Dix Rivan was killed, and the second Star Destroyer started to approach. As the Falcon followed the Outrider on the planet, Rendar dared Lando's piloting skill, as Lando told Leia about Rendar's past. To avoid Imperial sensors, they flew a few meters above the trees and then into the Grand Trench. After they passed the sensor station and lift out of the canyon, they came to the shipyard where Slave I was. Less than a minute away from the target, however, Rendar left, having been hired to lead, not fight. Cursing, Leia and Lando manned the turrets to fend of the TIEs as they approached Fett. Above the planet, as the Rogues retreated in a mock hyperspace jump, Wes Janson's malprogrammed R2 seized control of his X-wing and attempted to shoot Luke down. After avoiding it, Luke managed to shoot Wes' R2. The Rogues landed on Kile and examined Wes' Artoo. It was malprogrammed by an Imperial agent. Rendar arrived on the base explaining to Luke and Wedge why he was forced to withdraw. Meanwhile, Fett arrived at Slave I to find 4-LOM with two alien bounty hunters attempting to steal Solo's slab and shot them down, before seeing the Falcon approaching and took off. The Falcon had sustained too much damage and Fett's departure marked the failure of the mission. Luke and Wedge found that Janson's droid had been programmed by their technician Viera Cheran, who attempted to shoot Luke, before being shot by Wedge. As Luke welcomed Leia, Lando and Wedge investigated her account and discovered 10,000 credits paid by dummy corporations, tracing to Saber Enterprises. Being a front organization for the Empire's anti-espionage operations, they believe that she was paid by Vader. On Coruscant, having just ended the relationship with his mistress, and dined at Menarai, Xizor senr Guri to Ororo Transportation, a rival to Black Sun, and arranged a second meeting with Vader. Leia decided to contact an underground organization and find out who who wanted Luke dead. Unfortunately, she decided to ask Black Sun, unaware that this was the very organization they were looking for. Luke was sent to follow Fett on Tatooine, again not knowing that Xizor already expeceds him to do so. However, Leia also secretly hired Rendar to follow and protect Luke. Xizor visited the Emperor's skyhook and met Vader. Presented as a faithful servant to the Empire, he gave up the largest Vergesso asteroid in the Lybeya system as a secret Rebel shipyard. In reality, the Vergesso Base belonged to Ororo Transportation. Palpatine sent Vader and Admiral Okins to destroy the "Rebel" base, an order which was a setback to Vader's plans to watch over Xizor. Lando and Leia traveled to Rodia, where they met Avaro, the uncle of Greedo's, who promised them to bring a contact of Black Sun. Back on Tatooine, Luke was in Ben's hut finishing his lightsaber. Meanwhile, Jixton had arrived in Mos Eisley, and managed to challenge and impress Big Gizz and his gang by stealing Spiker's swoop bike and thus gained a job for Jabba. He was puzzled to learn that Jabba got a transmission that Vader wanted Luke dead, which interfered with Vader's instructions to ensure Luke's survival. After a discussion in Chalmun's cantina that Dash overheard, Jix and the gang raced over to kill Luke. Dash stole a swoop and ran after them. thumb|left|Spiker in pursuit of Luke Skywalker Luke was testing his lightsaber with Artoo when he saw the bikers arriving. He took out one of the riders, kicked one off and took his swoop to flee towards Beggar's Canyon. During the frail, Luke was unknowingly aided by Jix who sabotaged his fellows' attempts to hit Luke. The pursuers were halved and Luke lost them by passing through the Stone Needle when Rendar arrived, dropping into the canyon, and opening fire, causing them to scatter and flee. Big Gizz remained hidden and attempted to shoot Luke, but Jix hit his head with a stone. While Vader was en route to the Vergesso asteroid, Xizor visited Palpatine and revealed that he was the "generous" informant of the secret "Rebel base". Vader concluded the battle in his Interceptor, and on his way back he contacted the Emperor. Enraged, he saw Xizor in the hologram beside him. Back in his Palace, Xizor was informed that Leia attempted to contact Black Sun. Charmed by her beauty, he sent Guri to bring her. He then watched a recording of Guri's earlier meeting with the heads of Ororo Transportation, Z. Limmer, Tuyay, and Dellis Yuls; killing them after they refused to cooperate with Black Sun. Dash explained that he was sent by Leia, and the gang belonged to Jabba. Artoo detected the approach of a courier droid. It carried a message from Koth Melan to Leia, claiming to have vital information for the Alliance and requesting a meeting as soon as possible on Bothawui. Skywalker decided to go, followed by Rendar. On Coruscant, as Vader expressed his concerns on giving the Death Star plans to the Rebels, Palpatine said that he knew best. Leia got tired of waiting for Black Sun and Avaro explained that it's not up to him, not knowing that Guri was already coming for her. Before that, she sent the route of Suprosa to their Bothan double agent. Meanwhile, Fett was hiding in an asteroid field when 4-LOM resumed operation. Before Fett disabled him once more, Bossk's ship picked up his signal and attacked a stranded Slave I. Zuckuss and his team boarded the ship and apprehended Fett. As Furlag led him to the force cages, Fett opened a trapdoor under his feet and got his weapon. He killed everyone but Zuckuss, whom he kept alive to communicate with Bossk. He sent Bossk's shuttle back to him; when Bossk's colleague looked inside he saw his fellows dead, along with a detonation device, when Fett jumped to hyperspace. Luke and Dash made their way to the Intergalactic Trade Mission on Bothawui. Rendar bribed a guard, but on the 16th floor, the protocol droid R0-4 refuses to let them in without an appointment until Rendar pulled his blaster. The Bothan accepted the pair as Leia's representatives, explaining about a new unknown Imperial military project. A secured supercomputer containing the plans was being transported from Coruscant to Bothawui aboard the Suprosa, a Mobquet Medium Transport masquerading as a fertilizer freighter. Melan planned to capture it and had put together a team for the mission, joined by Skywalker and Rendar, who looked forward to an extra reward. In a hidden base outside the city, they met the Blue Squadron. On Coruscant, as Vader expressed his concerns on giving the Death Star plans to the Rebels, Palpatine said that he knew best. Lando, Chewie and Leia passed a long time in Avaro's casino. Lando gambled and played and won most of his games while Leia was fed up waiting. Eventually Avaro told her that Guri would meet them shortly. Guri's Bothan agent brings the route plans of the Suprosa to the Bothan Spynet, and Blue Squadron, joined by Ace Azzameen of the Rebel Alliance, move to the coordinates. thumb|Intercepting the Suprosa The vessel doesn't surrender as Luke demands and the Y-wings start disabling the engines. The Suprosa opens fire, destroying a ship and the Bothans break off to regroup. As they pull back, the freighter fires a Diamond Boron Missile. Rendar fails to shoot it down and it destroys a group of four Y-wings, killing eight Bothans and another two. Despite the losses, the Rebels soon disable the freighter and Rendar takes the Outrider in to conduct the boarding operation. He docks the Outrider and boarded the freighter to look for the supercomputer. Following Leebo's directions, Rendar works his way towards the main cargo hangar, encountering heavy resistance from the crew and Stormtroopers. Upon reaching the hangar, Rendar destroys a loader droid which attacked him with spring-loaded arms. After Rendar located the supercomputer and disabled the hangar force field, Leebo brings the Outrider into the hangar to collect the smuggler and the supercomputer. On Rodia, Guri inspects the Rebels at the Next Chance casino. After a brief meeting she cuts it short claiming that she has business to attend, leaving the Rebels with the distinct impression that there was something unusual about her. On the Outrider, Koth and Luke discuss about the supercomputer's significance while Dash blames himself for missing the missile. Luke sends Dash to Rodia to find Leia. Himself and Koth moves to Kothlis with Koth. En route to Kothlis, the party is attacked by Claw and Hunter which are driven off by Blue Squadron, and a special Bothan encryption team arrives at Kothlis to attempt to bypass the self destruct device of the supercomputer. Guri reports to Xizor that Leia is dangerous and advocates killing the Rebels. However, Xizor has other plans and asks her to be brought to Coruscant. He then meets Palpatine showing recordings of how successfully the plans entered Rebels' hands. With securing the plans, the Alliance gains trust in Xizor. The plans are in truth, outdated, and the second Death Star is fully operational, unlike what the schematics read. Lando installs a doppraymagno scanner in their hotel room waiting for Guri, before notified that Dash arrived on Rodia and welcome him. Guri then returns to Rodia and during their meeting, the scanner quickly confirms Leia's suspicions: Guri is not Human. C-3PO puts a sleeping potion in her tea, so that they can conduct a closer examination but it fails; the two continue to trade diplomatic small-talk until Guri, tired of proceedings, attempts to abduct Leia only to be restrained by Lando, Chewbacca, and Dash. thumb|left|190px|Luke being captured Luke and Koth and a Bothan special decryption team work on the supercomputer in the safehouse until bounty hunters break in. During the skirmish, a Bothan takes the supercomputer and hides it. Koth is killed, and Luke is captured, learning there there are two rewards on his head, both alive and dead. Unknown to him, it is Vader who wants him alive and Xizor who wants him dead. After much discussion between Leia, Guri, and Xizor, Leia and Chewie follow Guri to the Stinger and move to Coruscant. To allow the two to make it safely, Guri provides for them the disguises of of the Ubese bounty hunter Boushh, and Snoova. Meanwhile Lando is told by Dash that Luke remains on Kothlis and moves there. Palpatine sends Vader to Kothlis, both to take Luke, and also pretend that he is there to reclaim the supercomputer. Once more, this order foils Vader's plans to watch over Xizor. Meanwhile Luke in his cell manages to control the mind of his guard who is get to lock himself in the cell and take a nap. Luke exits and takes his lightsaber and comlink. On Coruscant, after "Boushh" and "Snoova" had made it through the customs of Coruscant, Leia meets Spero, a Ho'Din who owed her a favor, and gives some information about Black Sun. On Kothlis, bounty hunters discover Luke who wards them off. Then Lando shows up in an explosion and escapes with Luke on a stolen landspeeder. They depart on the Falcon for Tatooine, as the Executor has just arrived. Meanwhile the Death Star plans managed to reach the Razor over the planet. Skywalker is gone and Vader learns from Skahtul that someone wants Luke dead, with suspicions that this bounty comes from Black Sun. Leia and Chewie meet Guri again. They follow Howzmin and enter a maglev car that will bring them to Xizor's palace. Xizor hosts the visitors and provides them each with appropriate commodities. Meanwhile, Fett fixes Slave I lasers and tells Zuckuss his plans on delivering Solo to Jabba. The Falcon hyperdrive has failed to start and Vader feels Luke somewhere near an asteroid and sends pilots to investigate as Lando tries to repair the problem. However, Luke feels him approaching. The Falcon manages to leave the field and is ready for hyperspace, three dozens of TIEs come in. The ship enters hyperspace in the nick of time for Tatooine. Angered that his prey was lost, Vader orders to bomb a "suspected Rebel base" on one of the Kothlisian moons. In Jabba's Palace, Jix gets past security and makes contact with Vader on the Executor in order to inform him of the swoop bike incident with Luke. Vader learns that Jabba, too, had a bounty for Luke dead, put by someone who used Vader's name. thumb|right|200px|Xizor trying to seduce Leia Howzmin brings Chewie to Leia's room. Chewie looks strangely at Leia who prepares for him, and she excuses herself, claiming she is on a diplomatic mission. All that while Xizor was preparing his pheromones for meeting her in meditation. While the Falcon is en route to Tatooine, Luke feels Leia is in danger, despite Lando's reassurance. Leia attempts to negotiate with Xizor about business between the Alliance and the Black Sun, and then reveals that she is there for Luke, as Xizor kisses her. After an intense seductive experience, Leia is interrupted by Chewbacca who shows her microphones and cameras; she then instructs him to escape and notify Luke. Meanwhile Vader's returns to Coruscant and reports to the Emperor about the loss of Skywalker. He mentions that Xizor might be the one who wants him dead. Palpatine gives him a leave to look for Skywalker. Leia eventually retakes control of herself, and after she buys some time to let Chewie escape, she knees Xizor between the legs. He is outraged, and sends her back to her room. Chewie is intentionally allowed to "escape" (although not so easy) hoping that he would lead Luke to rescue Leia, and into Xizor's hands. He is not worried at all that Luke escaped Kothlis or Vader's bidding. Luke insists contacting Leia and receives a message from Chewie who tells that she is in danger. They change course for Coruscant. With some flying tricks they evade sensors, hide in "sensor shadow" and land on the planet uneventfully. thumb|left|The [[Falleen's Fist is destroyed by the Executor.]] Luke, Dash, Lando receive a message from Chewie and head for Coruscant where they meet; they stealthily make their way through the sewers of Black Sun in order to enter Xizor's palace. Using the Force, Luke and his thoughts inform Leia that he and the group are close by and will soon rescue her from Xizor. After much blasterfire with security guards with Luke integrating his increasingly advanced lightsaber skills, the group finds Leia and begins to lead her out of the palace. They enter a hallway with Xizor, Guri, and several more of his aides, and a battle soon commences wherein Xizor and Guri are impressed with Luke's skills as a Jedi. Luke and Lando soon threaten Xizor with thermal detonators that they send down the garbage chute, causing everyone to panic and scatter out of Xizor's palace. The Millennium Falcon, piloted by R2-D2 and C-3PO, wildly careens toward Luke and company, allowing them to escape onto the vessel above Coruscant. Xizor boards his skyhook, then sends four of his own starfighters at the Rebels, with Dash defending them with flak from the laser turrets of the Outrider. Rogue Squadron arrives in X-wings, and a fierce fight is already underway when TIE fighters show up, but the TIEs attack only Xizor's fighters. During the fight, Guri, Xizor's assassin human replica droid, manages to escape using a paraglider. When an angry Xizor demands that Vader tell him why Imperial forces are also attacking him, Vader confronts him via hologram on board the Executor over Coruscant. He tells Xizor that he warned him to stay away from Luke, but Xizor willfully disobeyed those orders. When Xizor does not comply with his ultimatum to stand down, Vader orders the Executor to destroy the Skyhook. There is a great explosion wherein the Outrider is thought to be destroyed when Dash actually makes a jump to hyperspace at the last moment, as he is convinced that his experiences with the Rebels have been too dangerous while there is too much money to be made elsewhere. On Tatooine, Fett fools the stalking bounty hunters with a disguised Zuckuss and a covered up 4-LOM that would seem to be himself and a carbonite block speeding away from the Slave I. The real Fett gives the actual carbonite block of Han to Jabba, and he receives his payment. Meanwhile, Luke, Leia, Lando, Chewbacca, R2-D2, and C-3PO prepare to rescue Han from Jabba the Hutt. Luke prepares his holographic message to Jabba and puts his lightsaber into R2. Shadows of the Empire had its origins in a dinner conversation between Bantam Spectra's Lou Aronica and LucasBooks' Lucy Autrey Wilson. Aronica suggested that Lucasfilm's multiple licensing deals would make it easy for them to create a multimedia project that could tell an over-arching story throughout multiple mediums. The company then conceived of the project as being "a movie project without the movie." In summer 1994 there was an initial planning meeting; it was decided that the project would be completed in the next two years, set for 1996, a year for which no major Star Wars products were expected. According to Roffman, Lucas originally planned to release the Special Editions in 1996, and the first film of his prequel trilogy in 1997 (for the 20th anniversary of Star Wars); when plans changed, and those projects moved to 1997 and 1999 respectively, the company decided that 1996 would be an opportune time to release their multimedia project. The Shadows was to be the first work that would tie in to the events of the original trilogy of films. Lucasfilm first intended to set the project between A New Hope and The Empire Strikes Back, but Jon Knoles convinced them that the period between The Empire Strikes Back and Return of the Jedi would be a more fertile period for storytelling. After George Lucas approved the concept, Wilson and Howard Roffman wrote a brief outline of the premise, which had Luke Skywalker threatened by an assassination plot, and a bodyguard foiling them. In November 1994, LucasArts representatives, other licensing representatives and Lucasfilm executives met at Skywalker Ranch to begin serious work on the project, determining what elements worked best for each media. Author Steve Perry, who represented Bantam Spectra and had been hired to write the novel, named the "bodyguard" as Dash Rendar, providing also the names of Guri and Koth Melan. Perry took detailed notes of the discussion, and used this to create an outline for his book. This outline would serve as the basis for all other aspects of the overall project, and was responded with long memos with changes and additions. On November 22 Kausch compiled a memo with initial ideas about the ships of the two new protagonists.The Secrets of Star Wars: Shadows of the Empire, Part 4: Battle Zones, II. Battleships In the initial outline, the outcome of the climatic final battle would have a happy ending, with all the protagonists and the Rebels, escaping the battle before its conclusion.The Secrets of Star Wars: Shadows of the Empire, Part 4: Battle Zones, IV. The Final Battle It was Jon Knoles' idea to add a secondary plot about Luke constructing his own lightsaber, as appeared in and commented by Vader. By January 1995 John Wagner had prepared an outline for the comics. On 17 April that year, a video game story line was completed. Art director Troy Alders hired Michael Butkus for the drawings of The Essential Guide to Characters, and also character design sketches for Shadows, which he produced between January and April 1995. Doug Chiang designed the main spaceships. Kilian Plunkett, the penciller of the comic book adaptation, contributed proposed art in the conceptual stage. Dave Williams made concept sketches for Applause figures. The two main original characters of the project were designed to be memorable and archetypical, from the young and heroic Dash Rendar and the evil mogul Xizor, the most powerful being in the Empire, able to defeat Darth Vader himself and take his place next to the Emperor. Both characters have a tragic past that costed them their families, with Rendar rebelling against the Empire, and Xizor orchestrating Vader's destruction. Experimental concept sketches of those characters started being made in January 1995, with Xizor passing through a more "monstrous" phase before settling to a more charismatic reptilian alien; Dash also started by Plunkett as a rugged, worn, disleveled two-fisted brawler before compromised to Butkus's more heroic and good-looking "Top Gun-like" braggart. Luke was costumed in a way that seemed transitional between the two movies, and wore a khaki tunic/vest. The finalized versions of the characters were reached around April and June of that year. Drew Struzan also completed the cover of the novel, with Luke's and Xizor's final appearances, around that time. Continuity editor Allan Kausch participated in the project, to ensure accordance of the events throughout the media. He assembled a timeline/flowchart showing events and actions of each character, provided as a guide to each participant of the project. On June 19 he wrote a memo summarized the basic action of the Beggar's Canyon Incident so that it would be followed by all creators. Sue Rostoni compiled an informational package of pictures and descriptions of the new ships that would be featured in the project, relative to the classical ships of the original trilogy; the prominently new ships would be the YT-2400 light freighter Outrider, the StarViper-class attack platform Virago, the Aggressor assault fighter IG-2000, the Conqueror-class assault ship Stinger, and the swoop bikes. In order to be included in the video game, Jon Knoles derived schematics from Doug Chiang's sketches as faithfully as possible, with Chiang's approval, and then proceeded to the computer model, with one such schematic of the Outrider dated February 22 1995. The ships would be featured also in The Essential Guide to Vehicles and Vessels that was in production around the same time; in summer 1995, Bill Smith came up with the backstories of the vessels. Prominent scenes would take place in the Imperial Palace and Xizor's Palace, a new original location. For the former, Ralph McQuarrie's concept art and Kevin J. Anderson's description, as published in The Illustrated Star Wars Universe, were used; Knoles also provided Plunkett with images from the earlier Star Wars: TIE Fighter, where the Palace was first seen, and the interior of a Gothic cathedral for inspiration. McQuarrie's unused concept art for the Palace interior was used for Xizor's Palace instead. Around that time, Industrial Light and Magic was producing the effects for the Special Edition trilogy. would feature an extended digital view of Mos Eisley. Concept art and storyboards from ILM were used as basis for similar scenes in the comic book; the video game would feature a 3d rendering of the spaceport, informed by the layout as would appear in the Special Edition. In the San Diego Comic-Con in July 1995, the Hildebrandts were celebrating at the Topps booth their return to Star Wars, and participation in the card series, while Kilian Plunkett and Anthony Daniels were signing at the Dark Horse Comics area. Wagner and Plunkett, already collaborating for the comic adaptation, met there in person for first time.The Secrets of Star Wars: Shadows of the Empire, Part 5: Shadow Play, I. GATHERING OF THE TRIBES Greg and Tim Hildebrandt, while working for the collectible cards illustrations, visited LucasArts, where Jon Knoles demonstrated to them the Shadows video game. The success of the project later served as a model for 2007's Star Wars: The Force Unleashed multimedia endeavor. }} thumb|right|120px|[[Star Wars: Shadows of the Empire (novel)|Shadows of the Empire (novel)]] The main plotline is told in Steve Perry's novel, Shadows of the Empire, published by Bantam Books. It introduces Prince Xizor, the Falleen overlord of the largest criminal organization in the galaxy, known as Black Sun. His goal is to take Darth Vader's place at Emperor Palpatine's side. Xizor is also seeking vengeance against Vader for the extermination of his family. Xizor makes his move against Vader upon learning of the identity of Luke Skywalker and his relationship to Vader. To exact his revenge, Xizor plots to kill Luke, thinking that will win favor with Palpatine and serve as retribution against Vader. Meanwhile, Vader is still seeking out Luke to convert him to the dark side after their encounter on Bespin. Luke finds himself the target of the two most powerful beings in the galaxy, other than Palpatine himself. Meanwhile, Han Solo is still frozen in carbonite and is being taken to Jabba the Hutt by the bounty hunter Boba Fett. Leia Organa, along with Lando Calrissian and Chewbacca, enlists the aid of Dash Rendar, a smuggler and acquaintance of Han's. Events transpire that cross the paths of Leia and the Rebels with Xizor and Black Sun that culminate in a battle over Coruscant among Xizor, Vader, and Rogue Squadron. Also revealed are how Leia and Lando developed Han's rescue and the construction of Luke's new lightsaber. Thus, the stage is soon set for Return of the Jedi. A prequel novel was planned to the original Shadows of the Empire story. The book was to be written by author Charles Grant. The novel was canceled apparently due to a Lucasfilm Licensing move from Bantam to Del Rey. The junior novelization of Star Wars: Shadows of the Empire was written by Christopher Golden and published by Bantam Doubleday Dell in October 1996. It is based on the story and novel by Steve Perry. The target audience of the junior novelization is kids 8&ndash;12. thumb|right|120px|[[Star Wars: Shadows of the Empire (TPB)|Shadows of the Empire (TPB)]] While many elements of the novel are also depicted in the comics, there is much greater emphasis on the intrigue between Boba Fett and his fellow bounty hunters, primarily Bossk, Zuckuss, and 4-LOM. It also tells the story of Jix, Darth Vader's special agent assigned to ensuring Luke's protection from Xizor. Upon learning that Luke was on Tatooine, Xizor hired Jabba to kill him. The job was given to his swoop gang, which had been infiltrated by Jix as part of Vader's assignment. The series was written by John Wagner and illustrated by Kilian Plunkett. Steve Perry, author of the Shadows novel, was a consultant of the comics. While the stories in the book and comics seldom intersected, it was necessary that characters, scenes, and dialogue match when they did come together. The first tie-in was Battle of the Bounty Hunters, the first-ever Star Wars pop-up comic. It was simply a reprint of the battle between Boba Fett and IG-88 shown in the first issue of the primary series. Some comics were also released by toy companies. Kenner released a two-part special which was a reprint of some scenes from the original comic like Battle of Gall. Some of the Lewis Galoob Toys included a Galoob Micro-Machines Mini-Comic and a Shadows of the Empire AMT/ERTL Model Kit Mini-Comic was distributed in ERTL model kits. These mini-comics like the Kenner version were mainly a reprint but they also included some original scenes. The entire history and analysis of the project was recorded in The Secrets of Star Wars: Shadows of the Empire, by Mark Cotta Vaz. The interactive part of the CD audio soundtrack also provides behind-the-scenes information. thumb|right|120px|[[Star Wars: Shadows of the Empire (video game)|Shadows of the Empire (video game)]] LucasArts' Shadows of the Empire video game was one of the first available for Nintendo's 64-bit system, Nintendo 64. The most commercial product in the Shadows of the Empire line was the Nintendo 64 game that was released on December 3, 1996, which was shortly after the release of the console itself (September 29, 1996). The computer version came almost a year later (September 17, 1997), featuring improved graphics and fully 3D CGI rendered cutscenes with dialogue (as opposed to the picture/text cutscenes of the N64 version). In the game, the player controls Dash Rendar in his efforts to help Luke Skywalker and rescue Princess Leia from Prince Xizor's hands. The game is divided in four parts (or chapters). The first one takes place during the beginning of The Empire Strikes Back, with Dash assisting in the Battle of Hoth in a snowspeeder, and eventually fleeing Echo Base. In the second part, Dash confronts some of the bounty hunters found in the movies, like IG-88 on Ord Mantell and Boba Fett. In the third chapter, Boba Fett has escaped and the player's mission changes: you must now save Luke Skywalker's life by fighting a deadly gang of bikers in Mos Eisley&mdash;this is vividly depicted in the comics as well&mdash;and then recover Imperial secret plans of the second Death Star, with Skywalker's help. Finally, in the last chapter takes Dash, Luke, and Lando to Coruscant to rescue Princess Leia from Xizor's stronghold. Certain parts of the game contradict elements from the book and comic book, but the overall story remains the same. thumb|right|120px|Star Wars: Shadows of the Empire soundtrack Film and TV composer Joel McNeely wrote and recorded a soundtrack for the project which was performed by the Royal Scottish National Orchestra and Chorus. It was published by Varèse Sarabande. Familiar themes from the movies can only be heard in tracks one ("Star Wars Main Title" and part of "Carbon Freeze"), eight ("The Imperial March" and "The Force theme"), and ten ("The Imperial March"). The disc also includes an interactive track for personal computers, containing concept art and additional information about the project. Kenner was one of the companies that made the toy line for the Shadows of the Empire project. Kenner's Shadows of the Empire line contains action figures, vehicles, and "two-pack" pairings of new and classic characters. Lewis Galoob Toys, famous for their line of "Micro Machine" miniature toys and playsets, also developed a full Shadows of the Empire toy line. It included three sets of miniatures and a boxed Action Fleet set with two swoop bikes and riders and four miniature articulated figures. Also included in the sets are the classic Star Wars characters (Luke, Vader, the Emperor) as well as the new characters (Xizor, Dash Rendar, Guri, and Leebo). Applause, Inc. licensed several resin figurines and statuettes. Artist Dave Williams made concept art for those figures, along with storyboards with events from the saga, in order to be fine-tuned into select poses for the would-be resin figurines. Applause produced at least two dolls, for Dash Rendar, for Xizor and a Limited Edition Statuette titled "Villains", featuring a bust of Palpatine with figures of Xizor and Darth Vader, and an embossed figure of TIE Interceptor with Stormtroopers. Other proposed scenes and figures included: Vader's meeting with Xizor; Luke confronting Dash about Leia in the aftermath of the Battle of Gall; Luke's and Dash's stand against Gizz's Gang. thumb|right|200px|[[Leia Organa Solo/Legends|Leia Organa meets Prince Xizor, depicted by the Hildebrandts.]] The trading card company Topps developed the Shadows of the Empire trading card line. The 100-piece Shadows of the Empire card set from Topps represents all three platforms that tells the story&mdash;the book, the comic series and the game, making it a unique storytelling medium and a highly anticipated collectible. The cards are the work of Greg and Tim Hildebrandt, the twin artists who painted the most recognizable Star Wars art of all time&mdash;the world-famous poster that is still an icon of the trilogy. The 100 card set featured double UV-coating and an extra-thick 20 pt. card stock for everlasting collectibility, all with full-bleed painted images on a 2 1/2" x 3 1/2" card. The Shadows of the Empire card series is highlighted by 72 cards that virtually storyboard the events in Steve Perry's novel. Besides that, there are six cards dedicated to vehicles, other six to the comics and another six keyed to the video game. Each pack came with nine cards. A tie-in comic book series was released from writer Ryder Windham in January 1997, Star Wars: Shadow Stalker, serving as a prelude to the original Shadows of the Empire story and expanding on the adventures of the character Jix, from the original story. The series also incorporated characters from the Archie Goodwin Star Wars newspaper strip story "Iceworld" (reprinted by Dark Horse comics in Classic Star Wars). The Jabba Tape continues the adventures of Big Gizz and Spiker&mdash;members of Jabba's swoop gang&mdash;after Jabba's death. Both Shadow Stalker and The Jabba Tape were originally serialized in Star Wars Galaxy. This led to a further adventure in the story Sand Blasted. A sequel was written to the original story by Steve Perry, the author of the Shadows of the Empire novel. The project is known as Shadows of the Empire: Evolution and was created in the form of a series of five comic books. The story is set after Return of the Jedi. Xizor, the leader of the Black Sun criminal organization, has been destroyed, and Guri, a beautiful human-replica droid and Xizor's personal assassin, is left wondering what her future will hold now that she no longer has anyone to answer to. Throughout the ongoing struggle for underworld supremacy, Guri endeavors to uncover hints of her human side&mdash;if it even exists. But in her quest to alter her programming and gain humanity, Guri becomes the quarry of both bounty hunters and Rebels (led by a Jedi-to-be named Luke). Secrets lay buried in her android mind that make her such valuable prey. Evolution was Perry's first foray into comics. These books were later combined to create a graphic novel. Star Wars: X-Wing Alliance, although not officially part of the project, has a campaign of seven missions that takes place during the period covered by Shadows, with the player having to recreate events mentioned in the novel and the game. This includes the missions to acquire the design schematics of the Death Star II. The game depicts Ace Azzameen assisting Dash Rendar in the capture of the Imperial freighter Suprosa, which was carrying the Death Star II plans and later flying to the Vergesso Asteroids during the Battle of the Bajic Shipyards (mentioned in the novel) for a concurrent rescue mission. The player will also witness the Imperial assault to Kothlis from space. The events around the Battle of Kothlis and the schematics of the Death Star also appear in Star Wars: Rogue Squadron II: Rogue Leader. The Outrider can also be seen very briefly in Star Wars: Bounty Hunter, in the sequence after the opening crawl and after The Dooku/Palpatine conversation. Once the space arena comes into view, the Outrider flies from the bottom middle of the screen towards the lower right side. The 1996 Return of the Jedi radio drama, Brian Daley makes several references to events from Shadows. For instance, in the radio drama, after Han is rescued, he criticises Lando for allowing C-3PO to fly the Millennium Falcon&mdash;an event that is portrayed in Shadows of the Empire. The 1997 Special Edition re-release of Star Wars: Episode IV A New Hope includes swoop bikes, ASP labor droids and the Outrider. Though originally developed for the Special Edition of A New Hope, the Sentinel-class landing craft (also known as the "Imperial landing craft") also made its first appearance in Shadows of the Empire. This is the craft seen lifting off in A New Hope when the stormtroopers are roaming Tatooine on the dewbacks. Xizor makes a cameo appearance at the podrace in Star Wars: Episode I The Phantom Menace. A Micro Machines model was used to portray him. *The Secrets of Star Wars: Shadows of the Empire *Star Wars: The Official Magazine 5 *The Adventurer 14 *Star Wars: The Ultimate Visual Guide *Star Wars: The Clone Wars – The Official Collector's Edition *The Art of Star Wars: The High Republic: Volume I }} Category:Multimedia projects