1146
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Bendix_Fust
Bendix Fust
7927

Bendix Fust was a male Mordageen, employed as a smuggler by the Dug King Sebolto in the final decades of the Galactic Republic. Fust smuggled death sticks, illegal euphoria-inducing drugs, until he was captured by members of the Republic Security Force in the Gazzari system. Fust struck a deal with the agency, trading information on Sebolto's drug cartel in exchange for a reduced prison sentence. When Sebolto found out, he placed a bounty on Fust's head; the bounty hunters Zam Wesell and Jango Fett claimed the bounty by breaking the Mordageen out of the Desolation Alley maximum security prison and handing him over to the Dug. thumb|left|upright|Bendix Fust in his prison uniform. Bendix Fust was a Mordageen male from the planet Mordagon. He was employed by the Dug crime lord Sebolto as a smuggler, transporting illegal drugs known as death sticks. While working in the Gazzari system, Fust was captured by members of the Republic Security Force in a sting operation against Sebolto's drug cartel. Faced with a long term of imprisonment, the Mordageen made a deal with the agency, telling them all he knew of Sebolto's drug cartel in exchange for a reduced prison sentence. He was then interred into a maximum security prison on the asteroid Oovo IV, a facility known as Desolation Alley,Star Wars: Episode I Racer and was assigned prisoner number 004563-013. Once Sebolto discovered that Fust had sold him out, he posted a 50,000-credit bounty for anyone who brought Fust to him alive. In 32 BBY,Star Wars: Bounty Hunter is set immediatly after the Invasion of Naboo, which The Essential Reader's Companion dates to 32 BBY. this offer was taken up independently by two bounty hunters, Zam Wesell and Jango Fett, who was told about the bounty by Toydarian Rozatta. Wesell, a shapeshifting Clawdite, stowed away aboard a supply vessel and infiltrated the prison. She arrived at Fust's cell first, and when he refused to accompany her, the Clawdite used a gas grenade to subdue him. She also initiated a prison riot to cover her escape. Shortly after Wesell left, the Mandalorian bounty hunter Jango Fett arrived at the cell, having traversed the prison's ventilation shafts. Fett followed after the escaping pair, eventually catching up with them just as they reached his starship, which Wesell hoped to hijack to escape the prison. Faced with numerous prison guards, the two professionals opted to join forces to escape the prison, splitting the bounty on Fust's head. Although Fett's ship was destroyed before they could escape in it, the pair managed to hijack a Firespray-class patrol ship and leave Oovo. The bounty hunters then took Fust to Malastare, Sebolto's homeworld where Fett allowed Wesell to hand Fust over to Sebolto at his palace, using the occasion to sneak into the Palace for his own purposes. Fust smuggled death sticks, an illegal drug composed of treated Ixetal cilona extract that offers euphoria in exchange for a shortened life; consequently, upon being captured by Republic forces, he was to be imprisoned for a significant period of time. In this situation, Fust was prepared to sell out his employer in exchange for a reduced prison sentence. After selling out his boss, Fust was very afraid of what Sebolto would do to him in reparation. Consequently, when Zam Wesell broke into his cell, he preferred to stay in prison rather than be returned to the Dug. Fust had white hair and pink skin. While in prison, Fust wore a red prison uniform and black shoes. Fust was first mentioned by the reference book The New Essential Guide to Characters,The New Essential Guide to Characters published on April 23, 2002, Fust first appeared in Star Wars: Bounty Hunter, a video game produced by LucasArts and released for the PlayStation 2 on November 19, 2002. In the game, Fust was voiced by Wally Wingert, who also voiced another character, Jervis Gloom. *Star Wars: Bounty Hunter *The New Essential Guide to Characters *Star Wars: Bounty Hunter: Prima's Official Strategy Guide *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Individuals with he/him pronouns Category:Males Category:Mordageen Category:Smugglers