1375
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Aquatic_Terrain_Armored_Transport
Aquatic Terrain Armored Transport
5716

The Aquatic Terrain Armored Transport, also known as the AT-AT swimmer, was a war vehicle used by the Galactic Empire, designed to be the aquatic equivalent of the land-based AT-AT walker. They were piloted by specially trained Imperial Army pilots. The AT-AT swimmer was manufactured in a joint venture between Kuat Drive Yards and Hydrospeare Corporation, and was derived from extreme modifications to the standard AT-AT that had been executed by the Imperial Army garrison on Kabaira.Star Wars: Imperial Handbook: A Commander's Guide The command deck was attached to a broad area of the ship which contained passengers. It operated in deep sea operations alongside TIE fighter boats and aquatic assault stormtroopers and could be found in Imperial aquatic military bases. It could carry 40 troops, and its cargo capacity was 600 kilograms. Its shell-like armor was designed to withstand and protect the vehicle from the crushing pressures of deep water, the effects of salt and water, and blaster fire. Its head was capable of providing firing arcs in all directions. The AT-AT swimmer had two modified heavy laser cannons, much like its land counterpart. Its main body was broader than that of the AT-AT to accommodate the four additional repulsorlift engines that keep it afloat. These four repulsorlift engines produced a powerful field strong enough to repel any object on the craft's ventral section, but it could be penetrated by strong swimmers where it was non-existent. The basis for the eventual Aquatic Terrain Armored Transport was created via the AT-AT Swimmer, which had been extreme modifications to the mech that were ordered by the Imperial Army garrison on Kabaira. This eventually ended up mass-produced, with some eventually being placed on Kaal, which proved enough of a problem to the Rebel's efforts on the planet that General Carlist Rieekan made a note while reviewing the official field manual for the Imperial Military, Imperial Handbook: A Commander's Guide, that they will need to import attack subs from Mon Calamari. By the time of Darth Krayt's Galactic Empire, an updated model was used. *Battle for the Golden Sun *Imperial Sourcebook *Galaxy Guide 9: Fragments from the Rim *Dark Empire Sourcebook *Imperial Sourcebook, Second Edition *Alliance Intelligence Reports *Rules of Engagement: The Rebel SpecForce Handbook *Star Wars: Imperial Handbook: A Commander's Guide Category:AT-series models Category:Hydrospeare Corporation products Category:Kuat Drive Yards products Category:Submarine models Category:Vehicle classes of the Galactic Empire Category:Vehicle classes of the Dark Empire