1506
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Tector-class_Star_Destroyer
Tector-class Star Destroyer
8618

|availability= |role=Destroyer |firstuse=22 BBYStar Wars: The Clone Wars: The Visual Guide |retired= |affiliation=*Galactic Republic *Galactic Empire *Zero Command *Imperial Remnant }} The Tector-class Star Destroyer was a Star Destroyer class in service with the Galactic Republic and the Galactic Empire. It was a 1.6-kilometer-long dagger-shaped vessel, essentially a version of the contemporary Imperial-class, with ventral hangars absent. Instead of ventral hangar bays, the design opted for an increase in armor that covered the areas normally used as main hangar openings, as well as the reactor core. This made the design more efficient in ship-to-ship combat, as it had less access to internal weak-spots. However, it limited its usefulness in other roles. Being without hangars, it required dedicated carriers to provide any starfighter support. thumb|left|240px|A Tector-class Star Destroyer participated in the Battle of Endor. The Tector-class was first produced by Kuat Drive Yards during the Clone Wars. It, along with the Imperator-class, was one of the largest Republic warship classes fielded during the conflict. In the first months of the war, the Tector-class was produced in small numbers to test their capabilities before a full-scale production could begin. One such vessel, the Gibbon, was sabotaged with a computer virus by Separatist agents while at Handooine and subsequently participated in the Battle of Salvara. The virus spread around the task force, leading the ships to lower their shields at a certain range of the enemy, turning the battle into a rout for the Republic. This and other incidents led to a delay in the production of the Tector-classStar Wars: The Clone Wars – The Official Episode Guide: Season 1 and the ships served only in a few task forces during the conflict. At one point, three Tector-class Star Destroyers participated in an Imperial Office of Customs blockade with several TIE fighters as support. Another Tector-class Star Destroyer active during the Clone Wars was the Archer.The Essential Guide to Warfare In the years following the rise of the Galactic Empire, the Tector-class and its sister-design supplanted the less robust Venator-class, leading to it being phased out of frontline duty. The class served the Empire for decades. Three of these vessels participated in the climactic Battle of Endor in 4 ABY, with one being lost to Rebel fire. thumb|right|An image of a Tector from the Illustrated Return of the Jedi novelization The first official reference to the Tector-class Star Destroyer occurred in Star Wars: Revenge of the Sith Incredible Cross-Sections. The inspiration for the Tector-class was a ship that was briefly spotted in Return of the Jedi. During the Battle of Endor, the Millennium Falcon flew beneath a warship which did not have the two ventral hangars standard on Imperial-class Star Destroyers. Additionally, the reactor bulb was covered up by armored plating and was not visible. Other sources, such as the Return of the Jedi novelization, supported the idea that Millennium Falcon did in fact fly over the underside of a ship with no ventral hangars. The concept art featured in this book corresponds with the scene in the film itself, with the text showing both matching dialogue and action between the film and novelization. On February 6th, 2007, Leland Chee confirmed on the Official Message Board that the hangarless ship seen briefly in Return of the Jedi is a Tector-class Star Destroyer. In this post on the StarWars.com Message Boards, Leland Chee confirms that the Tector-class Star Destroyer mentioned in Star Wars: Revenge of the Sith Incredible Cross-Sections is officially the class of the Star Destroyer without a hangar seen in Star Wars: Episode VI Return of the Jedi. *Star Wars: Revenge of the Sith Incredible Cross-Sections *Star Wars: Complete Cross-Sections *Star Wars: The Clone Wars: The Visual Guide *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia *Star Wars: The Clone Wars – The Official Episode Guide: Season 1 *Star Wars: The Official Starships & Vehicles Collection 32 *The Essential Guide to Warfare *Star Wars: Complete Vehicles Category:Kuat Drive Yards products Category:Star Destroyer classes Category:Starship classes of the Galactic Empire Category:Starship classes of the Galactic Republic