1650
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Adventures_of_a_Jedi_Prince
Adventures of a Jedi Prince
7911

The Adventures of a Jedi Prince series, also known as The Glove of Darth Vader series or simply the Jedi Prince series, is a Legends junior novel series from authors Paul Davids and Hollace Davids. It includes six volumes that were published by Bantam Skylark in paperback from 1992 to 1993. The complete series was reprinted in the 1997 hardcover collections Star Wars: Book One and Star Wars: Book Two. The series chronicles the story of Ken, a twelve-year-old Force-sensitive boy, and his adventures in the time after Star Wars: Episode VI Return of the Jedi. Many elements from the series have been widely disregarded by the Expanded Universe. *The Glove of Darth Vader *The Lost City of the Jedi *Zorba the Hutt's Revenge *Mission from Mount Yoda *Queen of the Empire *Prophets of the Dark Side The series' final novel, Prophets of the Dark Side, ends with Han Solo and Leia Organa walking down the aisle of their wedding ceremony, but a retcon states that the wedding was interrupted and never completed. Han and Leia were again married in the later novel The Courtship of Princess Leia (1994), by Dave Wolverton. A retcon in The Essential Chronology revealed that Trioculus, Grand Moff Bertroff Hissa, and other members of the Central Committee of Grand Moffs were trying to overthrow Director of Imperial Intelligence Ysanne Isard&mdash;who ruled the galactic capital of Coruscant&mdash;and usurp control of the Empire. Grand Moff Hissa connived to install Trioculus as the public leader of the Empire and gain support from the majority of the Imperials loyal to Isard. A retcon in the unlicensed Polyhedron 103 magazine stated that the Jedi Prince series had in fact been a children's story of the actual events told by Leia Organa Solo to her children Jacen, Jaina, and Anakin. However, this retcon was later ignored in The Dark Side Sourcebook which retconned the story to be true, but with numerous fixes&mdash;one of the most prominent, that the Kadann featured in the series was a con artist hired by Imperial Intelligence and the Prophets of the Dark Side were pretenders working for the Church of the Dark Side. The original Kadann never appeared in the novels, and the true Prophets of the Dark Side were hiding on Bosthirda during the events of the series. Who's Who: Imperial Grand Admirals established that the false Kadann met his end after Grand Admiral Afsheen Makati&mdash;who hated the true Kadann&mdash;mistakenly thought that the pretender was the Supreme Prophet of the Dark Side and destroyed Scardia Station, killing the false Kadann. The origins of Triclops were revealed in Aliens of the Empire by Abel G. Peña and Rich Handley. Triclops was not Palpatine's biological son, but the product of a scientific experiment in which Darth Sidious hired scientists Mammon Hoole and Borborygmus Gog to study the spontaneous generation of life. Sly Moore obtained a Human female called Niobi as the test subject for the project. Niobi gave birth to a three-eyed mutant, and she and her son were banished by Sarcev Quest, a Dark Side Adept loyal to Emperor Palpatine. However, in 2013, Peña and Handley wrote a new series of article for the official Star Wars Blog, entitled Barely Tolerable: Alien Henchmen of the Empire. In part one of that series, it was revealed that the three-eyed son of Niobi was in fact Trioculus. In part three of the article series, which was released on September 12, 2013, Handley and Peña finally tied Triclops with Sly Moore, but did not explicitly reveal the father's identity. Later in the year, Peña and Greg Mitchell co-wrote another blog article titled The Star Wars Spy Game: SPIN Declassified, which explicitely referred to Triclops as Palpatine's true son, not simply an alleged one. One conflict that has not been addressed involves the Rebel research center called DRAPAC on Mount Yoda. According to Timothy Zahn's Heir to the Empire, Leia, Luke's twin sister, didn't even know where Luke had been training during the Millennium Falcon stop at Bespin in The Empire Strikes Back until, after returning from an expedition to Dagobah five years after the Battle of Endor&mdash;well after the New Republic had been established on Coruscant&mdash;Luke confided where Yoda's secret retreat had been. *A Guide to the Star Wars Universe, Second Edition, Revised and Expanded *Star Wars Year by Year: A Visual Chronicle *The Essential Reader's Companion *Star Wars Year by Year: A Visual Chronicle, Updated Edition *Star Wars Year By Year: A Visual History, Updated and Expanded Edition Category:Legends young-reader series