1643
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Voolvif_Monn
Voolvif Monn
12696

|birth= |death= |species=Shistavanen |gender=Male |pronouns=He/him |height=1.8 meters |mass= |hair=Brown' |feathers= |eyes=Black |skin=Gray |cyber= |families= |parents= |partners= |siblings= |children= |affiliation=*Jedi Order *Galactic Republic |masters=Paouoish Rahhdool |apprentices= }} }} Voolvif Monn was a Shistavanen Jedi Master who served as a Jedi General during the Clone Wars. After he was discovered to be strong in the Force, Monn was taken as an infant from a planet near the Arah asteroid belt by a Jedi named Paouoish Rahhdool. Rahhdool took his new Padawan back to Coruscant to be trained in the ways of the light side of the Force. Monn proved a keen Jedi, eventually becoming a Jedi Knight some time prior to 22 BBY. He took the Jedi tradition of isolation and solitude to an extreme, standing aloof from his peers. When the Clone Wars broke out in 22 BBY, Monn was one of a team of Jedi sent to Geonosis to rescue Obi-Wan Kenobi, Anakin Skywalker and Padmé Amidala. In the battle that ensued, he was one of few survivors, and his ability to cope against the Separatist droid forces allowed him to ascend to the rank of Jedi Master. During the three year conflict between the Republic and the CIS, Monn participated in several more battles, including the Battle of Muunilinst, emerging on the victorious side in each of them. Voolvif Monn was a Shistavanen Wolfman, who was left orphaned as an infant on a desolate planet located in the vicinity of the Arah asteroid belt. His Shistavanen heritage gave him a keen sense as a hunter and tracker, and because he had no family, he was left to fend for himself. Monn was eventually discovered by a visiting Jedi Master by the name of Paouoish Rahhdool, who found that the young cubling had great potential in the ways of the Force. Monn was taken to be trained in the ways of the Jedi, eventually passing his trials and becoming a full-fledged Jedi Knight, also becoming one of the few Shistavanen Jedi. Monn proved to be a committed and capable Jedi Knight. He mastered&mdash;and, some said, perfected&mdash;a rare Force power in which he used Force energy to create a barrier around himself that protected him from any attackers. Monn was also proficient with a lightsaber, and could use his green-bladed weapon to fend off multiple enemies at any one time. He also honed his hunting skills while a Jedi. The Jedi Order dictated that none of their number should have any emotional attachments to others, be they Jedi or non-Jedi, though many skirted close to flouting these regulations when making friendships with their fellow trainees. Voolvif Monn, however, took the rule more seriously than his peers, and spent most of his time as a Jedi in solitude. thumb|right|300px|Monn alongside his troops at the Battle of Muunilinst. In 22 BBY,The Essential Reader's Companion Monn was stationed at the Jedi Temple on Coruscant when a distress call was sent out by Jedi Knight Obi-Wan Kenobi on the planet Geonosis in the Outer Rim Territories. Kenobi, along with Jedi Padawan Anakin Skywalker and Senator Padmé Amidala, had been captured by the Confederacy of Independent Systems and were due to be executed. Jedi Master Mace Windu led a team of over two hundred Jedi to Geonosis to rescue Skywalker, Kenobi, and Amidala from the leader of the Confederacy, Count Dooku&mdash;Monn was among them. The Jedi at the Petranaki arena were heavily outnumbered by battle droids, and many died, though Monn, putting his shielding abilities to the test, was able to survive, and participated in the Battle of Geonosis after Grand Master Yoda arrived with backup, in the form of the Grand Army of the Republic. The Jedi and Republic were ultimately victorious, though many of Monn's fellow Jedi perished in the fighting. The Battle of Geonosis was the first conflict in the galaxy-spanning Clone Wars. Due to the abilities he showed at Geonosis, Monn was elevated to the rank of Jedi Master so that he could command clone troopers in the war. Four months after Geonosis,The New Essential Chronology Monn and the clones under his command were sent to Muunilinst in order to wrest the planet from the control of San Hill's InterGalactic Banking Clan and to curb the production of CIS battle droids. After Republic forces bombarded the planet's main city, Monn led a group of clones into the city's main streets while Obi-Wan Kenobi and the elite clone unit known as The Muunilinst 10 led an assault against the InterGalactic Banking Clan's main command center. thumb|left|300px|Monn during the Battle of Muunilinst. His movements covered by clouds of smoke, Monn advanced toward the CIS forces alone, among remnants of the formerly great city that was now in ruins. When he eventually came into the view of the B1-Series battle droids, the Shistavanen Wolfman charged at them as the droids began firing their blasters at him. Monn was able to deflect any bolts that came near him, eventually leaping towards his enemies and cutting them down by the dozen. When Monn had fought off the first wave of droids, his troops arrived in LAAT/i gunships, dropping charges and deploying ground troops to deal with the remaining CIS forces. The battle did not last long, however, as Kenobi was able to force the Muuns to surrender and shut down their droids. Monn celebrated with his troops, though he was soon at battle again. Later in the war, during the Outer Rim Sieges, Monn and his fellow Jedi Agen Kolar and Aayla Secura were dispatched to an ice-covered planet to fight CIS forces. However, the tide of the battle went the way of the Separatists, and Monn, Kolar, and Secura were left to face several LM-432 crab droids armed with bubble wort projectors. The Jedi did their best to defend themselves, but eventually became ensnared in the bubbles. They were saved by the arrival of Anakin Skywalker, who singlehandedly destroyed the droids and freed Monn and the two other Jedi. thumb|right|300px|Voolvif Monn celebrating. Voolvif Monn shunned the company of his fellow sentients for the large majority of his life; he grew up in solitude in the Arah asteroid belt, honing his hunting and tracking skills during his time living there. As a Jedi, he took the Order's edict of detachment to an extreme, spending almost his entire time alone. He stood aloof from his peers, rarely speaking except for the joyous roars he let out after emerging victorious in combat. As a result of his isolated lifestyle, Monn was regarded by other Jedi as something of an enigma, and few had the courage to approach and converse with the Jedi Master whom they felt was so mysterious. However, while he was an aloof, distant being, Monn was willing to enter combat when it was required of him, and he showed his bravery numerous times during the Clone Wars. Monn had grey-skin, black eyes, brown hair, and stood at 1.83 meters. thumb|right|300px|Voolvif ready for a fight Voolvif Monn was created as part of a Cartoon Network poll to determine which of three new Jedi, each based on characters seen in the cantina scene in Star Wars: Episode IV A New Hope, should be introduced in the Star Wars: Clone Wars television series. Monn won the contest, and appeared in "Chapter 20," though the other two contestants, Foul Moudama and Roron Corobb, were later introduced as well. Voolvif Monn's name resembles that of the Shistavanen Wolfman appearing in A New Hope from which his creation was inspired, whose original nickname was "Wolfman." *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia *The Unknown Regions *Star Wars: The Ultimate Action Figure Collection Category:Individuals with he/him pronouns Category:Jedi assault team members Category:Jedi Generals Category:Males Category:Post-Ruusan Jedi Masters Category:Shistavanens