2174
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Cydon_Prax
Cydon Prax
12752

, ThuleStar Wars: The Clone Wars video game |species=Chistori |gender=Male |pronouns=new |height= |mass= |hair= |feathers= |eyes= |skin= |cyber= |families=new |parents=new |partners=new |siblings=new |children=new |affiliation=Confederacy of Independent Systems |masters= |apprentices= }} Cydon Prax was a Chistori male bounty hunter employed by the Confederacy of Independent Systems as a bodyguard during the early days of the Clone Wars. Following the death of another mercenary, Jango Fett, Prax took his place as the personal enforcer of Count Dooku in the year 22 BBY. In the month that followed the First Battle of Geonosis, Prax discovered the remains of the Force Harvester&mdash;an ancient technology buried on the planet Raxus Prime&mdash;with the help of the smuggler Bera Kazan. Dooku had the weapon transported to the Kashyyyk system and ordered Prax to conduct a field test on Alaris Prime, a forest moon home to a local Wookiee population, where the Separatists could gauge the effects and magnitude of the Harvester's life force draining power. Prax then joined the Separatists on the planet Thule where Dooku, satisfied by the experiment's results, converted the Harvester into a power source for the Dark Reaper superweapon. Recognizing the Dark Reaper as an existential threat to both the Galactic Republic and Jedi Order, Jedi General Mace Windu personally oversaw the Grand Army of the Republic's invasion of Thule. During the battle, Dooku was evacuated while Prax confronted Jedi Commander Anakin Skywalker in the ancient Sith ruins of Kesiak. Despite Prax's efforts to kill the young Jedi Padawan, the Chistori bounty hunter was slain in battle, allowing Skywalker to complete the mission by destroying the Dark Reaper. thumb|left|250px|Cydon Prax unearthed the ancient Force Harvester with the help of Bera Kazan. A male Chistori, Cydon Prax achieved distinction in the Clone Wars as an elite soldier of the Confederacy of Independent Systems&mdash;the secessionist organization that waged a civil war against the Galactic Republic by the year 22 BBY. With the death of the Mandalorian bounty hunter Jango Fett at the first engagement of the war, the Sith Lord Darth Tyranus&mdash;better known in public as Count Dooku&mdash;had lost his most trusted right-hand man to the beheading strike of the Jedi Master Mace Windu's lightsaber. In the same year that marked Fett's demise on Geonosis, Dooku swiftly replaced the late mercenary with Cydon Prax. As Dooku's newest bodyguard, Prax was entrusted with the execution of several missions that the Count regarded as important to the Separatist cause. Prax was also charged with taking custody over the young Boba Fett, an unmodified clone of Jango Fett that the latter raised as his son. However, Prax failed to be an effective substitute for the orphan's lost father. Cydon Prax accompanied Count Dooku to Raxus Prime where the Separatists excavated the remains of the Force Harvester, a vital component to the reconstruction of the ancient superweapon known as the Dark Reaper. A contingent of the Grand Army of the Republic attacked the planet and although the battle was ultimately a draw, both Dooku and Prax escaped with the Jedi Padawan Anakin Skywalker in pursuit. Skywalker confronted the Count alone in a brief lightsaber duel until Prax rendered him unconscious with the stun setting on his heavy blaster pistol. Once the Force Harvester was fully reconstructed on Alaris Prime, a forest moon that orbited the planet Alaris in the Kashyyyk system, Cydon Prax activated the device on the order of Count Dooku, who wished to see its effects on Force-wielders like Skywalker. Prax then vacated the entire area soon after the Harvester's activation, given that it was designed to kill every living being within close proximity. Despite this, Skywalker managed to escape the weapon's blast radius with the aid of Bera Kazan, a former Separatist mercenary who aided Prax in locating the Harvester shortly before being betrayed and used as a test subject for the machine. thumb|right|250px|Prax replaced the late Jango Fett as Count Dooku's bodyguard and enforcer. The crisis came to a head at the Battle of Thule, just as Count Dooku and Cydon Prax oversaw the completion of the new Dark Reaper superweapon. In the midst of a firefight between Republic clone troopers and Separatist battle droids, Prax entered the battlefield in his personal Dreadnought battle tank. Although he destroyed Mace Windu's TX-130 Saber-class fighter tank, the Jedi Master survived his vessel's destruction and continued to lead the Republic forces on the front line. Meanwhile, Prax regrouped with Dooku in the ancient Sith city of Kesiak, also the capital of Thule where the Dark Reaper was held. When Anakin Skywalker led a division of clone units into the city while piloting his own TX-130 tank, Count Dooku ordered Cydon Prax to confront and kill the young Jedi shortly before departing the planet. Thus, a firefight began between Prax and Skywalker that culminated with the latter's victory and the destruction of Prax's Dreadnaught battle tank, ending the Chistori mercenary's life. With the destruction of the Dark Reaper, the Republic claimed victory on Thule. Cydon Prax was known as a callous, dispassionate being and a lethal soldier on the battlefield. His pitiless demeanor affected his ability to raise Boba Fett in Jango Fett's place, making him an unsuitable father figure. It also left him desensitized to mass murder as he felt no compunction about utilizing the Force Harvester's lethal energies on Alaris Prime, a moon filled with numerous specimens, including Wookiee settlers. His utter lack of ethics also rendered him unconcerned with acts of treachery, such as when he betrayed and imprisoned Bera Kazan shortly after she aided him in the Separatists' search for the Force Harvester. In addition to his skills as an elite trooper and marksman, Cydon Prax was a talented pilot who could compete in battle with highly-skilled Jedi such as Mace Windu and Anakin Skywalker. Due to his Chistori biology, Prax was a cold-blooded reptilian; a fact that contributed to his reputation as a mercenary who possessed a "heart of ice." His other physical features included square teeth and a crown of horns that adorned the base of his skull.Boba Fett: Crossfire thumb|left|250px|Cydon Prax's Dreadnaught battle tank During the Clone Wars, Cydon Prax wore a fully-encased suit of armor, much like his predecessor Jango Fett, that concealed his alien appearance. Though Prax's armor was not of Mandalorian design, its most prominent feature was a left shoulder-mounted blaster, which was most likely auto-targeting. Other assets in the armor's design included a system that maintained Prax's body temperature in a constant state in any environment. Due to his abilities as a pilot, Prax possessed a personal starfighter for aerial combat. However, his primary vehicle was a Dreadnaught battle tank that was heavily armed with laser cannons, mass-driver cannons, concussion missiles and a plasma pulse discharger. Cydon Prax was voiced by André Sogliuzzo in the video game Star Wars: The Clone Wars. In Boba Fett: Crossfire, Prax is described as having a crown of horns and square teeth. No other known Chistori exhibits these traits. Cydon Prax also does not have a large snout like Desann, given that the shape of his helmet reflects a human-like skull. *Star Wars: The Clone Wars video game *Boba Fett: Crossfire *Star Wars: The Clone Wars: Prima's Official Strategy Guide *The New Essential Chronology *Threats of the Galaxy *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Bounty hunters Category:Chistori Category:Confederacy military personnel Category:Males Category:Pilots