2182
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/XR-85_tank_droid
XR-85 tank droid
6711

Manufactured by Arakyd Industries, the XR-85 tank droid was a treaded, automated tank that was part of the Galactic Empire's arsenal. The Arakyd Industries XR-85 tank droid was armed with a heavy particle cannon, two forward light turbolasers, four twin heavy repeating blasters (two at the front, two at the back), and one aft Golan Arms DF.9 laser cannon (for anti-personnel duty). thumb|left|180px|XR-85 tank droid [[:Category:Technical drawing images|schematics.]] The earliest models were roughly the same size as the All Terrain Personal Transport, allowing multiple units to be carried inside a Sentinel-class landing craft. They were used to protect bases, attack Rebel uprisings, and keep the peace on Imperial worlds. However, the prototypes were too expensive for mass production. Around 0 ABY, three XR-85s were deployed to attack the wrecked Rebel starship Nonnah. Around the same time, a group protected the Weapons Research Facility on Fest. Many of those units were destroyed in battle there with Rogue Squadron. Later models, produced after Grand Admiral Thrawn's return and subsequent campaign, were over twice the size of a standard Imperial AT-AT and more inexpensive and practical to mass-produce. They utilized a pirated Industrial Automaton R7 droid brain matrix, used in the R7-series astromech droid, which made each droid far more independent and intuitive than earlier generations of combat droids. Tank droids fought on Coruscant during the Imperial Civil War.Dark Empire II 1 Cost-cutting by the crumbling Empire made the XR-85s a good alternative to other assault vehicles, as it became more difficult to find or train qualified crew. The production of tank droids was increased in order to bolster ground forces wherever possible. thumb|right|200px|What became known as a partially damaged XR-85 fighting on Coruscant was actually intended to be an Imperial vehicle positioned between a cannon tower and a destroyed [[TIE crawler/Legends|TIE crawler]] The XR-85 tank droid first appeared in the 1991 comic book Dark Empire 1, and was later named in the 1993 Dark Empire Sourcebook. The illustrations of the tank droid in The Essential Guide to Vehicles and Vessels was based on a panel from Dark Empire 1 that showed a tracked Imperial vehicle in front of a tower emplacement, which was misinterpreted as a single vehicle; the tracked vehicle appeared separately in Dark Empire II 4.Dark Empire II 4 However, all subsequent depictions of the XR-85 tank droid have been based on the combined vehicle design, such as its appearance in the 1998 video game Star Wars: Rogue Squadron. *Star Wars: Rogue Squadron *Dark Empire 1 *Dark Empire Sourcebook *The Essential Guide to Vehicles and Vessels *Star Wars Encyclopedia *Star Wars: Rogue Squadron: The Official Nintendo Player's Guide *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Arakyd Industries products Category:Crawler and wheeled vehicle models Category:Droid models of the Galactic Empire Category:Droid tank models Category:Vehicle classes of the Galactic Empire Category:Vehicle classes of the Dark Empire Category:Droid models of the Dark Empire