2278
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Jedi_Praxeum
Jedi Praxeum
25106

The Jedi Praxeum, also known as the Jedi Academy or the Yavin Praxeum, was an academy that was founded by Jedi Master Luke Skywalker on Yavin 4 in 11 ABY during the era of the New Republic. The ancient Jedi scholar Karena coined the term praxeum to describe a Jedi academy as a place for the "distillation of learning combined with action." In the days of the Galactic Republic, well-known praxeums included those on Teya IV, Arkania, Ossus and Dantooine. Inspired by the parting words of Obi-Wan Kenobi and the several Force-sensitive individuals he had encountered, Skywalker planned for a unique institution where new and old Jedi could learn together. During the Yuuzhan Vong War, the Praxeum was destroyed during the Yuuzhan Vong's Invasion of Yavin 4. thumb|left|200px|[[Lightsaber/Legends|Lightsaber lessons at the academy]] Students at the Praxeum trained in the ways of the Force, learned to defend themselves with a lightsaber, and studied diplomacy, history and more. Most of the Jedi in Skywalker's Jedi Order were trained at the Academy and learned somewhat directly from him, although most were trained by the battlemaster of the academy, Kyle Katarn. The Jedi Praxeum, wherever it was, tended to be a base of operations for the Jedi, and often a home when they were not performing other jobs for Master Skywalker or going about their personal lives. Skywalker was known to leave the Academy in times of crisis to help the New Republic, leaving it in the capable hands of Streen, or Kam and Tionne Solusar. }} thumb|right|200px|[[Finn Galfridian and Jaina Solo train at the Praxeum, with Lowbacca below.]] Once the project was sanctioned by Chief of State Mon Mothma, Skywalker asked Leia Organa Solo to come up with a location to set up the academy. Mon Mothma suggested Yavin 4 to Organa Solo, who in turn recommended it to Skywalker. Skywalker agreed that Yavin 4 was the perfect location. He decided to set it up in the Great Temple that housed the earlier Alliance base at the time of the Battle of Yavin. Internally, the Praxeum made use of the four-level design of the Great Temple, with each floor making up a step of the ziggurat. Thus, all floors were based on similar plans with small cells, chambers and corridors around a large central space. The topmost level, almost entirely taken up by the Grand Audience Chamber, was used as a ceremonial hall by the Alliance garrison and later employed by the Jedi Academy as a teaching space. The next level was converted entirely to accommodations for the Jedi Masters and their students, with any extra space being used for storage. On the level below, the central chamber was named the Strategy Center, with the surrounding rooms on this level used as meeting rooms, communications and computing bays, kitchens and dining halls. The lowest level of the temple continued to serve as a vast hangar bay for starfighters and other vehicles, with a second hangar underneath, and cellars and catacombs that remained largely unused. Access to the hangar was by a set of ground-level blast doors opening onto a landing pad. After the Galactic Civil War, the average ground level around the structure's exterior had risen, so that the main entrance was at War Room level, and many of the students thought of the entire hangar complex as being essentially underground. Although the hangar doors remained accessible, the area in front of them no longer served as the main landing zone. The academy had many training grounds equipped with remotes, ASP-19 battle droids, training lightsabers and other technology to challenge the new apprentices. thumb|left|180px|Luke Skywalker's first Jedi students After the transition from Rebel base to Jedi academy was complete, Skywalker recruited twelve students: Tionne, Dorsk 81, Kirana Ti, Kam Solusar, Brakiss,Young Jedi Knights: Heirs of the Force Streen, Gantoris, Corran Horn (under the alias of Keiran Halcyon),I, Jedi Madurrin,The Essential Chronology has a portrayal of the original Jedi Academy students on Yavin Four with an Anx Jedi, the same species as Madurrin, in it. Leland Chee later confirmed at that Madurrin is assumed to be the Anx Jedi, marking her as one of Luke Skywalker's pupils. Kyle Katarn (who soon left due to his concerns about the dark side of the Force),The New Essential Chronology and two other cadets (possibly Havet Storm, Keyan Farlander, Nichos MarrChildren of the Jedi or HarlanThe Jedi Academy Sourcebook). They were joined shortly thereafter by Kyp Durron, Mara Jade,The New Essential Guide to Characters Cilghal and Dal Konur. A Chistori student named Desann proved very talented, but struck down his training partner Havet Storm in a fit of rage. He fled the academy, only to return later as a Dark Jedi determined to destroy the academy with a huge invasion force of the Empire Reborn.Star Wars: Jedi Knight II: Jedi Outcast Horn left the academy early on, frustrated with Skywalker's training methods, and eager to find his kidnapped wife, Mirax. Horn doubted that he could use his Force abilities for anything and chose instead to rely on detective skills learned during his years with CorSec. He realized that it was possible to combine his detective and Jedi skills. After he rescued his wife, he eventually returned to the academy. Mara Jade was initially only loosely attached to the academy. She would stay there for some time and train with the other students and teach them what she knew. She did not feel ready to commit herself fully to the way of the Jedi yet, as she still had many unresolved issues. Eventually she became more and more attached to the academy, and to Luke Skywalker, whom she eventually married. Like Horn, Katarn, who had trained informally with Jade prior to the establishment of the Praxeum,Star Wars: Jedi Knight: Mysteries of the Sith returned to the academy to assist the Jedi in defeating Galak Fyyar and Desann's invasion force of stormtroopers, swamptroopers, Reborn warriors and shadowtroopers. After defeating Desann in a lightsaber duel deep in the Great Temple, Katarn decided to stay at the Praxeum. All three were to become central figures in Skywalker's Jedi Order. By the start of the Crisis of the Disciples of Ragnos, Katarn and Horn had apprentices under their tutelage. Katarn had attained the rank of Jedi Master at that time. Jade and then Horn would later advance to the rank of Jedi Master. thumb|right|Jaina Solo, Jacen Solo, Tenel Ka, Lowbacca, Anakin Solo, Zekk, and Tahiri Veila as students at the Praxeum Later, students such as Jaden Korr, Rosh Penin, Cray Mingla, Nichos Marr, Ganner Rhysode, Wurth Skidder,Union 1 Octa Ramis,The New Jedi Order: Dark Tide II: Ruin Miko Reglia,The New Jedi Order: Vector Prime Raynar Thul, Lusa,Young Jedi Knights: Delusions of Grandeur Tenel Ka, Lowbacca, Zekk,Young Jedi Knights: The Lost Ones Tahiri Veila, Tekli,The New Jedi Order: Balance Point Eryl Besa,The New Jedi Order: Star by Star Ulaha Kore,The New Jedi Order: Agents of Chaos II: Jedi Eclipse Jovan Drark, Zak Arranda, Tash Arranda, Daeshara'cor, Dolph, and Raltharan attended. Anakin, Jacen, and Jaina Solo also attended the Praxeum to develop their abilities. Students as diverse as Rodians, Humans, Twi'leks, Kel Dors and Zabraks attended the academy in this period. Penin turned to the dark side during the crisis of the Disciples of Ragnos but was redeemed by Korr and Katarn. Most of the students at the academy participated in the epic battle on Korriban where the Disciples of Ragnos were defeated once and for all. thumb|left|200px|Luke Skywalker gathers Jedi students for the [[14 ABY/Legends|14 ABY opening speech.]] In 14 ABY, it was common that multiple students were assigned to only one Master due to the small number of Jedi Masters, like in the case of Kyle Katarn and his apprentices Jaden Korr and Rosh Penin. After receiving information from Zekk that the Jedi Praxeum was in danger from attack by the Second Imperium, Jacen, Jaina, Lowbacca and Tenel Ka alerted Luke Skywalker and the rest of the Jedi trainees of the incoming attack. As the trainees prepared, the Shadow Academy and the Empire appeared in the sky above the Jedi Praxeum and unleashed swarms of TIE fighters, stormtroopers and Dark Jedi adepts. Using TIE stealths, the invaders flew under the academy's shield and destroyed the generator, leaving the academy open to aerial assault. thumb|right|200px|The explosion at the Praxeum during the Third Battle of Yavin As Masters and trainees engaged the enemy, Brakiss attacked his former master Luke Skywalker. After retreating, Brakiss demanded to see the Emperor. He would later discover that the Emperor had never returned. Back on the ground, the remaining Imperial forces saw the destruction of the Shadow Academy and surrendered. In a final attempt to gain victory, an officer of the Empire slipped into the Praxeum and planted a time bomb. The bomb exploded and destroyed a large portion of the building, though no Jedi was badly injured. Reconstruction took place on the Jedi Praxeum. The Jedi trainees helped clear debris and also hunted for shards of carved stone blasted from the ancient structures, cataloging them so that the pieces could be reassembled. Off-world engineers, architects and laborers were also called in to help in the restoration efforts. New Republic military forces and planetary shields were installed on the Praxeum to defend it. After this battle, the New Republic stationed a fleet over the moon to protect it.Young Jedi Knights: Crisis at Crystal Reef thumb|left|250px|The Jedi Praxeum was destroyed by the Yuuzhan Vong. The second battle of the Jedi Praxeum occurred during the Yuuzhan Vong War in 26 ABY. The battle was fought between the Jedi and the Peace Brigade, who attacked, causing the Jedi to flee into the jungle as the Yuuzhan Vong consolidated their presence in the system. Talon Karrde and Booster Terrik helped the few Jedi Knights and the many Padawans escape the clutches, making the Errant Venture and then the Shelter in the Maw the new home of the Jedi Academy.The New Jedi Order: Edge of Victory II: Rebirth After the Yuuzhan Vong War, the Praxeum was reestablished on Ossus.The New Jedi Order: The Unifying Force The term Jedi Praxeum, which means "a place for the learning of action," was coined by the author Karen Anderson from the latinized version of the Greek word praxeion, which comes from the word praxis. The use of the word temple derived from Shaolin Temple now commonly used for Jedi temples was considered, but rejected. The words Academy, Lyceum, Stoas, Seminary, Campus, cloister, quad, Monastery, dojo, Cadre, Laboratory, and Dynurgy were also rejected. *Star Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds *Star Wars: Battlefront II *Jedi Search *Dark Apprentice *Champions of the Force *I, Jedi *Children of the Jedi *Jedi Academy: Leviathan 1 *Jedi Academy: Leviathan 2 *Jedi Academy: Leviathan 3 *Jedi Academy: Leviathan 4 *Star Wars: Jedi Knight II: Jedi Outcast *Darksaber *The Crystal Star *Star Wars: Jedi Knight: Jedi Academy *Before the Storm *Tyrant's Test *The New Rebellion *Ambush at Corellia *Specter of the Past *Vision of the Future *Union 1 *Junior Jedi Knights: The Golden Globe *Junior Jedi Knights: Lyric's World *Junior Jedi Knights: Promises *Junior Jedi Knights: Anakin's Quest *Junior Jedi Knights: Vader's Fortress *Junior Jedi Knights: Kenobi's Blade *Young Jedi Knights: Heirs of the Force *Young Jedi Knights: Shadow Academy *Young Jedi Knights: The Lost Ones *Young Jedi Knights: Lightsabers *Young Jedi Knights: Darkest Knight *Young Jedi Knights: Jedi Under Siege *Young Jedi Knights: Shards of Alderaan *Young Jedi Knights: Diversity Alliance *Young Jedi Knights: Delusions of Grandeur *Young Jedi Knights: Jedi Bounty *Young Jedi Knights: The Emperor's Plague *Young Jedi Knights: Return to Ord Mantell *Young Jedi Knights: Trouble on Cloud City *Young Jedi Knights: Crisis at Crystal Reef *Invasion 1 *Invasion 2 *Invasion 4 *Invasion: Rescues 1 *Invasion: Rescues 6 *The New Jedi Order: Agents of Chaos II: Jedi Eclipse *The New Jedi Order: Edge of Victory I: Conquest *The New Jedi Order: Edge of Victory II: Rebirth *The New Jedi Order: Ylesia *The New Jedi Order: The Unifying Force *Dark Nest I: The Joiner King *Dark Nest II: The Unseen Queen *Legacy of the Force: Inferno *Legacy of the Force: Invincible *Fate of the Jedi: Apocalypse }} *"An Apology" *Star Wars Gamemaster Screen, Revised *The Essential Guide to Vehicles and Vessels *The Jedi Academy Sourcebook *Pirates & Privateers *Cracken's Threat Dossier *The Essential Guide to Weapons and Technology *Rules of Engagement: The Rebel SpecForce Handbook *The Essential Guide to Droids *C-3PO: Tales of the Golden Droid *Star Wars Roleplaying Game Core Rulebook *Power of the Jedi Sourcebook *Hero's Guide *Jedi vs. Sith: The Essential Guide to the Force *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia *Star Wars: The Official Starships & Vehicles Collection 12 *Jedi Academy Training Manual *The Jedi Path: A Manual for Students of the Force }} }} Category:Jedi academies Category:New Jedi Order locations Category:Yavin 4 locations