2648
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Vandar_Tokare
Vandar Tokare
22245

*Unidentified Padawan *Zayne Carrick }} Vandar Tokare was a male Jedi Master of Yoda's species who was the head of the Dantooine Jedi Enclave Council during the Mandalorian Wars and Jedi Civil War, holding a seat on both the Jedi High Council and the Council of the Jedi academy during this time span. He was friends with fellow Council member Vrook Lamar, usually having the last word in their frequent disagreements, most notably on the choice to train Revan once again in the ways of the Jedi after his fall to the dark side of the Force. During the Conclave at Katarr, Tokare was killed along with many survivors of the First Jedi Purge and the entire Miraluka colony after the Sith Lord Darth Nihilus drained the Force from the planet's surface. thumb|left|200px|[[Jedi Master/Legends|Master Tokare served the Jedi Order on Dantooine.]] Tokare took Derrica Praji and another person as Jedi Padawans and trained them on Ossus. In 4225 BBY Tokare and his two apprentices traveled to the world Kaikielius, where they led Galactic Republic troops during the Kaikieli Reconquista, a campaign to retake Kaikielius from criminals. For three months, Tokare led attacks on most criminal-infested cities and was eventually victorious. Prior to the Mandalorian Wars, Tokare had a conversation with Vrook Lamar concerning Meetra Surik. She had yet to achieve the title of Jedi Knight, but a Master had already been assigned to her, and her talent with Force bonding had already begun to manifest itself. Master Lamar had low views on anyone who followed Revan, but even before the war, he deemed Surik a mediocre Jedi and believed her talent was uncontrolled because of lust for power, and that it would eventually lead her to the dark side. When he caught Surik in a heated argument with his Padawan, Lamar first asked her Master to lecture her about discipline, without success, then he expected Master Tokare to step in, but he wouldn't either. Though respecting Lamar's wisdom, Tokare told him that it was not his concern, and he voiced a divergent opinion on Surik, whom he saw as a natural leader with a unique strength. This conversation was recorded by a protocol droid serving at the Jedi Enclave. Years later, in 3951 BBY, for the first time since she went to war, Surik would return to Dantooine. She met this droid in a battered state, its memory banks corrupted, but after indulging in some maintenance, she found a partially degraded holorecord of Lamar and Tokare speaking about her.Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic II: The Sith Lords thumb|right|200px|Vandar Tokare on [[Coruscant/Legends|Coruscant]] In the years leading up to the Mandalorian invasion of the Galactic Republic during the Mandalorian Wars, Master Tokare taught many pupils, and by 3964 BBY he was the leading Master of the Jedi Enclave. Zayne Carrick, who had been a student of his before being apprenticed to Lucien Draay, sought the help of Master Tokare in the wake of the Padawan Massacre of Taris, for which he had been framed. The fugitive Padawan contacted him from The Last Resort and disclosed the details of what occurred in the Jedi Tower when his fellow students Shad Jelavan, Kamlin, Oojoh, and Gharn were all killed during their Knighting ceremony.Knights of the Old Republic 4 thumb|left|250px|Revan defies the council. Distraught, Tokare asked him how could he have murdered those he grew up with. Carrick tried to explain that he barely escaped the same fate, as he was chased by those he found standing among their corpses with their lightsabers drawn, their own teachers, Jedi Masters Feln, Q'Anilia, Raana Tey, Xamar, and Draay himself. But Tokare found it hard to even contemplate that Draay, who was the scion of an important family, both in the Republic and in the Jedi Order, could be responsible for such a thing. Instead, he pondered aloud if Carrick himself may have committed the crime, and subconsciously erased it from his mind. When Carrick called the Enclave, Tokare was in a meeting with fellow Council members Zhar Lestin, Lamar, and Bala Nisi. He asked Lestin about any Jedi Consulars serving on Taris and was surprised to hear that, save Draay, all Jedi stationed there were Consulars, which was unusual. Nevertheless, he told Carrick that if he turned himself in, one of those Jedi could probe his mind and help him find the truth. Just as Carrick pointed out that those were the ones trying to kill him, the transmission got cut by Jarael, who struck Carrick from behind and knocked him unconscious. thumb|left|250px|The Council of Dantooine follows Carrick's arrival on Taris. Within weeks since the murders, Carrick decided to turn himself in so as to relieve his new companions of the trouble he had brought upon them. In the Council chamber of the Jedi Enclave, Tokare watched him on a news hologram as he was brought in chains to the Jedi Tower. However, before he could be killed by Draay, Carrick was rescued by Jarael and escaped once again. The Masters of Taris was then contacted by the Dantooine Jedi Enclave Council and recalled to Coruscant to explain themselves.Knights of the Old Republic 6 As they stood awaiting the High Council's judgment, a stern Vrook Lamar would reprimand the five for allowing the deaths of their students, and he would remind them of a recurrent counsel of Tokare's about being protectors as much as teachers. Master Tokare instead regretted he did not listen to Lamar's counsel when he assigned students to then-uneager teachers, feeling now that perhaps that reluctance was, in fact, wisdom.Knights of the Old Republic 9 When Raana Tey hired the Moomo Brothers to stalk Carrick's father, banker Arvan Carrick, Master Tokare welcomed his family to Dantooine for as long as they liked, and let Arvan Carrick work for the Jedi Enclave. Despite Dantooine not offering much in the way of financial opportunities, Master Tokare was surprised to hear of his request, which was really to let Carrick's mind be at peace with the well-being of his loved ones, while he did what he could to clear his name. Arvan Carrick justified it with the fact that Carrick always spoke of Tokare as of someone he could trust, and that trust meant a lot in banking.Knights of the Old Republic 12 thumb|right|200px|Lamar and Tokare At some point, Lucien Draay was offered a seat on the Jedi High Council as a result of the influence of his family and the manipulations of his former teacher, the shadow leader of the Jedi Covenant, Haazen. Lamar and Tokare agreed to this if only to keep a closer look at him and find the truth about the Padawan Massacre. Tokare found his rise to power rather suspicious and felt someone else was behind it, but he could not tell who or why. Haazen was really safe from Tokare's grasp in the Living Force, as he relied on a Sith artifact known as the Yoke of Seeming to prevent Jedi from perceiving his intentions.Knights of the Old Republic 33 After the deaths of Feln and Raana Tey, Tokare received a transmission from Shel Jelavan, the sister of one of the victims. He was informed by her of what took place on Jebble when Covenant Shadow Celeste Morne, a rogue Jedi under Lucien Draay's orders, unleashed a powerful dark-side artifact which caused the Rakghoul plague; and he agreed to meet Jelavan in a cantina on Coruscant, where he was to ask for "Captain Malak." The bank Arvan Carrick worked for was co-owned by the Draay Trust, a corporation from which half the members of the Jedi High Council received funds for their charitable causes. With his help, Master Tokare discovered that the true extent of their financial power and influence within the Jedi Order was indeed more than enough to make possible the creation of Jedi Shadows. Though being very skeptical on this matter, Master Lamar accompanied him to the meeting, and when Tokare made the name of his contact they found that Captain Malak was none other than Jedi Knight Alek, Revan's most trusted lieutenant, who had come to Coruscant with Jelavan on Carrick's behalf, even though an arrest warrant had been issued on Revanchists, by the Council, on Lucien Draay's request. Jelavan told the Masters what happened on Taris, when Raana Tey revealed that the head of the Jedi Covenant was Krynda Draay, a Sage Master, and one of the few remaining heroes of the Great Sith War. However, even when Alek told them that Carrick was bringing a collection of Sith artifacts from a repository on Odryn as evidence to expose the Covenant and clear his name, Master Lamar said that it was not enough to bring the matter before the Council. He and Tokare realized that if they were to accuse Krynda Draay, the Order would be torn apart, as she had been training Jedi for thirty years after the war, without the supervision of the Council, and retained their allegiance. When Carrick landed and gave the signal, they set off to meet him. Just as Master Tokare came to the conclusion that one of the Masters of the Covenant needed to speak up, Xamar stepped forward, ready to confess. After the events of Vindication, the Council offered to reinstate Carrick into the Order as a Jedi Knight. But Carrick decided he'd rather look out for people who fell beneath the Order's notice and declined the offer. thumb|left|200px|Master Tokare celebrates the [[Battle of Rakata Prime|destruction of the Star Forge.]] During the Jedi Civil War that followed the Mandalorian Wars, Tokare oversaw the training of Revan after he was stripped of his memory by the Jedi Council. He was also the one who assigned Revan and Shan to hunt down the Star Maps that would lead to the Star Forge. Having survived Darth Malak's attack on Dantooine, Master Tokare participated in the Battle of Rakata Prime, acting as an adviser alongside Admiral Forn Dodonna. After the battle, it was Tokare who proclaimed Revan to be truly redeemed, thus reinstating his former rank of Jedi Knight and also proclaiming him as the "Prodigal Knight." In 3952 BBY Jedi Master Atris called a Jedi Conclave under the strict agreement of secrecy on the Mid Rim world of Katarr, where the few Jedi who escaped the First Jedi Purge hoped that in communion with the Force-sensitive Miraluka, they would be able to identify the elusive Sith threat that was ending them. Many Jedi, including Tokare, attended the meeting, not knowing that Atris had secretly leaked knowledge of the gathering in the hopes that the enemy would reveal themselves. Ruled by his hunger, Darth Nihilus was drawn from the Unknown Regions and fed upon all life on the planet, making the Jedi all but extinct, thus killing Tokare. Tokare's death would be relayed to Meetra Surik on Dantooine by his longtime friend Lamar, who had not gone to Katarr, and was still unaware of why or how he had died. Surik would learn later how Atris had even felt what could happen, and still not warned the Jedi, choosing instead to stay safely away and watch. 250px|thumb|left|The gatekeepers of the Noetikon of Science By the time of the Cold War, Vandar Tokare's wisdom, knowledge, and personality had been preserved in one of the great Noetikons, an interactive Holocron and a treasured artifact of the Jedi Order. Out of the three Noetikons, Tokare had been stored in the Noetikon of Science alongside Masters Tharis Orne and Arca Jeth. Tokare and the other Gatekeepers of the Noetikons were able to help in finding a cure for the Scorekeeper's Herald, a Jedi Consular whose Master, Yuon Par, had been inflicted with a maddening illness that was slowly turning her to the dark side. thumb|right|200px||Master Vandar Tokare using the Force to [[Telekinesis/Legends|levitate]] Vandar Tokare was a master of the Ataru variant of Jar'Kai and wielded two lightsaber shotos. Like most wielders of the Force, he could perform mind tricks, but he also possessed many strong Force powers such as Sever Force and Force suppression. He was also capable of advanced applications of telekinesis, like levitation, and was also able to wield his shotos telekinetically. Aside from Basic, he could also speak Kreva and Draethos. Unlike other known members of his species, such as Yoda and Yaddle, he did not speak Basic with the unusual dialect that marked their speech. thumb|left|200px|Concept art by [[Harvey Tolibao for Knights of the Old Republic 12]] Tokare can also die if the player makes the dark-side choice in Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic. Tokare dies along with Admiral Forn Dodonna aboard a Republic capital ship, destroyed by Sith fighters assisted by Bastila Shan's battle meditation. Tokare is voiced by veteran voice actor Tom Kane, who has done the voice of Yoda in several video games, the mini-series Star Wars: Clone Wars, and the TV show Star Wars: The Clone Wars. Kane went on to reprise the role of Vandar Tokare in the massively multiplayer online role-playing game Star Wars: The Old Republic, where he appeared as a Jedi holocron. Vandar Tokare is of the same species as Yoda and Yaddle and is the only known member of his species to have a surname. He is also one of only two (the other being Oteg) to use common Basic grammar, although this may have been due to his growing up with the Jedi, many of whom spoke conventional Basic. His last name is misspelled as Dokar in Jedi vs. Sith: The Essential Guide to the Force. *Knights of the Old Republic 2 *Knights of the Old Republic 4 *Knights of the Old Republic 6 *Knights of the Old Republic 9 *Knights of the Old Republic 12 *Knights of the Old Republic 24 *Knights of the Old Republic 29 *Knights of the Old Republic 31 *Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic *Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic II: The Sith Lords *Star Wars: The Old Republic *Star Wars: The Old Republic: Knights of the Eternal Throne *Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic: Prima's Official Strategy Guide *Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic Handbook *Jedi vs. Sith: The Essential Guide to the Force *Knights of the Old Republic Campaign Guide *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Individuals with he/him pronouns Category:Males Category:Members of Yoda's species Category:Pre-Ruusan Jedi High Council members