2916
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Calius_saj_Leeloo
Calius saj Leeloo
3974

Calius saj Leeloo, also known as the City of Glowing Crystal, was a major tourist attraction on Berchest during the days of the Galactic Republic and the planet's most populous city. The city was carved by the native Berchestians, entirely from one massive crystal, which was created over the centuries from the salt deposits of the adjacent Leefari Sea. Being an architectural and beautiful masterpiece, it was included in the list of the Twenty Wonders of the Galaxy by the historian Vicendi in 10,000 BBY.The Essential Atlas During the conflict with the Eternal Empire, Calius saj Leeloo was the capital city of Berchest. In 22 BBY, during the Separatist Crisis, it was rocked by a 7.1 groundquake on 13:3:13, centered 45 kilometers west of the city in the mountains. The quake caused substantial damage, shattering homes and businesses and causing thousands to flee the city. Thousands more were estimated to have been killed. The spaceport closed for twelve hours as a result of the quake. The Sanctum Arcti, Calius's most famous structure, sustained only light damage, which was declared a miracle by the galactic media. The Refugee Relief Movement sent aid and ships to the planet soon after. Before the Clone Wars, like the rest of the planet, the city based its economy on tourism. Due to the successive conflicts of the Clone Wars and the Galactic Civil War, tourists stopped coming to enjoy the city. Luckily for the Berchestians, the planet was able to leverage its position on several important trade routes and turn itself into an important trade nexus. *Star Wars: The Old Republic *Star Tours: The Adventures Continue *Star Wars: Rebellion *"Side Trip" *The Last Command *The Last Command Sourcebook *The Thrawn Trilogy Sourcebook *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia *The Essential Atlas Category:Berchest locations Category:Galactic Empire cities Category:Galactic Republic cities Category:Twenty Wonders of the Galaxy