3044
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Hethrir
Hethrir
31005

*Inquisitorius *Dark Empire Aliens in the Empire *Empire Reborn |masters=*Darth Vader |apprentices= }} Hethrir was a Force-sensitive Firrerreo male who was at one time, along with his lover Rillao, an apprentice of Darth Vader. His powers in the dark side of the Force became a threat to not only his son Tigris, but also the children of Han and Leia Organa Solo. Under Emperor Palpatine, Hethrir held the office of Procurator of Justice and with the defeat of the Empire in 4 ABY, became the leader of the Empire Reborn insurgency. thumb|left|200px|[[Lord/Legends|Lord Hethrir stares eagerly at a model of his worldcraft.]] Lord Hethrir, a Firrerreo, was born on the Firrerreo homeworld of Firrerre during the last decades of the Galactic Republic. He and his mate Rillao, both Force-sensitive, were discovered by Inquisitor Antinnis Tremayne. The Inquisitor tortured the pair and demanded they confess all they knew about the Jedi survivors of Order 66, but neither had any information to impart. Sensing they were malleable prey, Tremayne brought the Fierrerreos to Darth Vader as prospective students. During their training, Vader determined Rillao had the markings of a Jedi healer and Hethrir shared Darth Sidious' ability to cast a dark side shadow over Force users, dulling their abilities. Hethrir proved to be a powerful student and an ideal Imperial, absorbing humanocentric philosophies with obvious pleasure despite his own alien status. Emperor Palpatine, seeing in Hethrir a like-minded individual, named him the Imperial Procurator of Justice, head of the entire Imperial justice system.Aliens in the Empire The role was an anonymous one, during which he exiled thousands of prisoners in passenger freighters, and amassed a fortune from his exclusive ability to harvest body-wood. To prove his loyalty, the Emperor directed Hethrir to eradicate the entire population of his homeworld. When he carried out the order with barely a second thought, Rillao fled in digust with their unborn son. The Emperor was pleased and bestowed upon Hethrir an artificial worldcraft. Swollen with pride, Hethrir named it Rebirth. Hethrir eventually caught up with Rillao and their newborn son. Darth Vader had high hopes for turning their son Tigris to the dark side, but he was born with no Force powers. Hethrir tortured Rillao and kept Tigris as his servant. In 1.5 ABY, Lord Hethrir was present at the Emperor's Retreat on Naboo. He contracted various mercenaries and spacers to complete missions against the a rebel cell on the planet. Hethrir hired these intermediaries to locate a small-time counterfeiter who claimed to have a holodisc with recordings of the suspicious activities of Alderaanian refugees. The Empire did not negotiate with terrorists, nor did they pay good credits for information leading to them. Hethrir instructed his intermediaries to buy the information and pay the counterfeiter with a quick death.Star Wars Galaxies The holodisc confirmed that the refugees were the ones responsible for spreading Rebel propaganda on Naboo that claimed that the Empire had destroyed their world with a superweapon. The recordings showed the Alderaanians meeting at a safehouse. Hethrir contracted mercenaries to meet the owner of the meeting house, eliminate him, and locate a datapad containing intel on the Rebel cell's leader. Once the datapad was recovered, Hethrir tasked the Emperor's Head Chamberlain Kaja Or'zee with recovering their names. The datapad contained all the names and locations of the propagandist instigators, but it also showed a message was sent to warn their leader that they had been found. Despite this, Hethrir had a plan to lure him out. According to the datapad, the leader's mentor retired from the Imperial Navy three years prior, then later went on to help General Garm Bel Iblis orchestrate the destruction of the Death Star. Hethrir was convinced a message from this mentor would draw the leader out of hiding, and tasked his mercenaries with taking out the mentor to drive the message home. The Alderaanian did exactly what Hethrir had expected and came out of hiding to make a nuisance of himself. Hethrir next tasked his mercenaries with delivering a special holodisc to the local HoloNet broadcast station. He had secretly placed a recorder on the mercenaries he had contracted to kill the Alderaanian's mentor to record the murder. He then edited the footage to so it appeared the propagandist had killed his own mentor. The broadcast station was contacted by an "anonymous citizen" who claimed to have visual proof as to who was responsible for the recent acts of violence Hethrir's mercenaries had perpetuated. Once they received the footage, they broadcasted the holo to the public and handed it over to the Empire as evidence. After the propagandist was identified as a local serial killer, a local mob apprehended him and turned him into the Sector Police. Rather than make the propagandist a martyr in the eyes of the public, Hethrir turned him into a reviled villain. The public saw what evil the Rebel leader was capable of and would no longer believe his lies. The Emperor gave a statement that his crimes would be tried by the Procurator of Justice. The Procurator (Hethrir) tasked his mercenaries with escorting the propagandist to his trial. The evidence Hethrir had fabricated was enough to convict the Rebel leader in a swift trial. He was charged with three counts of murder, destruction of property, and being a part of a Rebel plot to destroy Alderaan. Though trained by Vader, Hethrir's loyalty was to power, and ultimately the Emperor. Before the Emperor was killed at the Battle of Endor, he introduced Hethrir to his vision of a Dark Empire that he'd personally rule for a thousand years. In the power vacuum that followed Endor, Hethrir wasted no time putting a plan into motion. He formed alliances with his rivals High Inquisitor Tremayne, Admiral Galak Fyyar, and a number of wealthy Imperial nobles. Disgruntled Imperial lords, eager to regain their power and influence—such as the Lords Brashaa, Cnorec, and Qaqquqqu, and Lady Ucce—joined him, swearing an oath of secrecy and devotion, bringing with them numerous followers and starships. Admiral Galak Fyyar was recruited to his cause in 10 ABY, financing many of his technological enterprises. Fyyar was known more for technological innovation than his skills as a military leader, but had worked closely with the Emperor before disappearing after his death.Star Wars: Jedi Knight II: Jedi Outcast He consolidated their presence in the Outer Rim, while alliances with Deep Core warlords such as Admiral Harrsk were pursued to strengthen their Core support. While protected by the anonymity of his former position, Hethrir was able to remain invisible to the Imperial warlords and New Republic while his remnant faction gained momentum. The years that followed were tumultuous, but nothing rivaled Hethrir's shock when he was summoned to the planet Byss to stand before the reborn Emperor Palpatine. Hethrir repledged his loyalty immediately, having understood Palpatine was not a man, but a vessel for the darkness of the universe, an avatar of the dark side itself. When the Emperor finally died, Hethrir believed that the dark side had now chosen him as its new champion. He believed he was destined to lead an Empire Reborn for the next millennium, and thus rechristened his remnant faction. Hethrir was ignorant to the secret of immortality and Palpatine's other god-like powers such as the abilitiy to create destructive hyperspace wormholes. If he was going to be the dark side's next champion, he knew he needed greater access to the Force. He assumed control over Crseih Station, a mobile research center constructed to conduct experiments that tested the limits of realspace, hyperspace and otherspace. In 3 ABY, Crseih Station relocated to the Crseih system, where it orbited a black hole and a crystallizing white dwarf star. The dimensional research of Hethrir's scientists, the disturbances in the Force of the crystallizing star, and Hethrir's torturing of his prisoners created a space-time distortion that yanked a mysterious alien known as Waru into the galaxy from another dimension. He was an extradimensional, Force-sensitive mass of flesh with "anti-Force" abilities. Unfazed by its strangeness, Hethrir took the most logical course of action and cut a deal with it. He promised a supply of Force-sensitive victims to feed on so Waru could attain the power to open a vortex back to his dimension. In exchange, Waru would complete Hethrir's dark side transformation by granting him absolute power over the Force and everlasting life. Sequestered alternatively on Crseih Station and his private worldcraft, Hethrir built up a broad power base. Hethrir financed his movement with a flourishing slave trade, supplied by the thousands of prisoners he had condemned and imprisoned in sleeper ships, including his own people, the Firrerreo. Hethrir believed that both he and the Empire would last a thousand years. Thus, after a thousand years, Hethrir planned to return to those freighters and awake their prisoners from their sleep, in the hopes that they would remember him as an all-powerful god whom they had to obey. He established Crseih Research Station—under the alias Asylum Station—as the hub of this slave trade. thumb|200px|Hethrir in the [[Emperor's Retreat/Legends|Emperor's Retreat on Naboo]] Hethrir profited off his slave trade to purchase armament from gangsters such as the Rodian Reelo Baruk, and, using armor, shield generators, and power cores scavenged from the derelict Star Destroyers orbiting Endor, outfitted a fleet, with the Doomgiver as its flagship. Hethrir's military forces were led by Admiral Galak Fyyar. He eventually crossed paths with Desann, a Chistori Jedi who left Luke Skywalker's Jedi Academy after he killed another student, and brought him before his obscure master. Despite his anti-alien prejudice, Hethrir made Desann his right hand in his Empire Reborn, reasoning that even Emperor Palpatine had made some exceptions. He entrusted him with the task of training a Dark Jedi army. Searches for Force-sensitives on backwater worlds such as Tatooine was the main form of recruiting for this army. Those with potential were abducted and taken to the Rebirth for indoctrination. Hethrir, with an ability to dampen others' Force abilities, often prevented non-Humans from demonstrating any Force ability, consigning them to be sold as slaves. Those Humans with Force potential moved up the ranks of the Helpers, Proctors and Empire Youth. Many of Hethrir's trainees were taken to the temple of the Waru on Crseih Station to be "purified." Waru was posing there as a healer, but occasionally killed beings brought for healing, sucking in their strength. The Empire Youths that survived Waru's purification were entrusted to Desann for training. One of these youths, Tavion, was taken by Desann as an apprentice. Desann, in addition to training those with talent, experimented with imbuing Human Empire Youths without much Force talent (chosen by Hethrir for reasons of racial dogma rather than pragmatism) with dark-side powers, using Force crystals and ancient alchemical secrets of Sith origin. Hethrir also sought the Valley of the Jedi, which had been revealed to exist by an ally, High Inquisitor Antinnis Tremayne. He tasked Desann with locating it, which he did by tricking the Jedi Knight Kyle Katarn into revealing its location. Desann led his students to the psychic bloodstain remaining at the site, quadrupling their innate powers with the leftover energy from the freed Jedi spirits that were once trapped there. These empowered Empire Youths came to be called the Reborn. Eventually, however, Katarn and Skywalker dealt with Desann and the Reborn, hampering the Empire Reborn movement. Despite pressure mounting from his supporters, and the huge investment into research and training lost, Lord Hethrir still had control of the younger Empire Youth and affiliated indoctrination programs. Having run out of freighter children to sell, he began to steal them from Republic worlds. As such, he still supplied Waru with Force-sensitives, and kept his bargain alive. With the Republic preoccupied by Gilad Pellaeon's Orinda campaign, Hethrir received a brief reprieve, reorganizing some of his facilities such as that on Alzoc III. However, Kyle Katarn and the Republic continued to dog his steps, destroying that base, and killing some more of his precious few remaining Reborn.Star Wars: Jedi Knight II: Jedi Outcast demo Rumors of abducted children also surfaced, with Republic agent Winter sent to investigate. thumb|left|Lord Hethrir during his kidnapping of the [[Solo family/Legends|Solo children]] Still, Hethrir knew that if only he could get Waru to empower him, he could realize his vision. What he needed was a child exceptionally strong in the Force that would enable the Waru to return to his home dimension and allow Hethrir to receive the boundless power he craved. Hethrir believed the Solo children would serve this purpose. Fortuitously, Chief of State Leia Organa Solo was undertaking a tour of the Outer Rim worlds soon after in 14 ABY, and was taking her children with her. While Mon Calamari and Gbu, the first planets on her itinerary, would provide no opportunities, Munto Codru, the third planet on the tour, would provide the perfect arena for a kidnapping attempt. Its political system included ritualized "coup abductions" of noble children, who were later ransomed off unharmed. Hethrir correctly surmised that any pursuit or reprisals would be delayed under the assumption his kidnapping was only a part of the political sport. Temporarily blocking Leia's ability to sense her children, and using a pressure bomb to incapacitate the children's minders—the Wookiee Chewbacca and a local page—Anakin, Jacen, and Jaina Solo as well as the Munto Codru chamberlain's wyrwulf were captured and whisked away by skiff. They were shipped off planet to Hethrir's worldcraft, while Leia was still being advised to wait for a ransom request. On his worldcraft, Hethrir told the children their parents were dead and that he would look after them from now on as their hold-father. The children were suspicious, however, and proved remarkably resistant to the programming. Hethrir assigned his own son, Tigris, to look after Anakin, and put the twins in with the rest of the imprisoned children, including a Chironian girl, Lusa. The kidnapped children caused much trouble at the station, using the Force to harass the young Proctors. Though held in separate cells, the Solo twins escaped their cells, taking a number of the other children with them. With the aid of a female sand dragon that Jacen communicated with, they escaped the entire compound and hid from the Proctors and Helpers in a swamp. Meanwhile, Leia and Chewbacca had been tracking Hethrir through the Force. They discovered a cluster of 24 sleeper ships, including one containing Hethrir's ex-mate, Rillao. Five years earlier, Hethrir had imprisoned her in a web like torture device on the ship. This ship was full of Firrerreo that Hethrir had imprisoned as a sign of his loyalty to the Emperor, after which he destroyed their entire world. Joining their party, Rillao led Leia and Chewbacca to the bureaucrats of Chalcedon&mdash;a rival in the slave trade to Hethrir's own Asylum Station. Rillao revealed that Hethrir had stolen their son Tigris from her, hoping that he would succeed Hethrir as leader of his Empire Reborn. Upon realizing Tigris had no Force potential, Hethrir had not even revealed his parentage to the boy, but kept him around as his personal servant. thumb|right|150px|Hethrir Arriving at the worldcraft, Leia, Chewbacca, and Rillao rescued Jacen, Jaina and the other children in the Alderaan. They were too late to rescue Anakin, though, for Hethrir had already departed for Crseih Station with a phalanx of Proctors, intending to relaunch the Empire Reborn and sacrifice Anakin in the temple of the Waru. The two mothers pursued. Also on Crseih Station, Han Solo and Luke Skywalker were investigating reports of a lost Jedi, leaked by a con artist and former acquaintance of Solo, Xaverri. Xaverri had been on the station for a number of years and was deeply concerned about the "healer" Waru, and wanted them to investigate. Luke, however, seemed to be taken by the strange being, his judgment and Force ability crippled by the resonance of the nearby crystallizing star. He became distrustful of Han and Xaverri and convinced he needed Waru's help and healing. The conflict came to a head, as the three parties met in the temple of the Waru. In a grand ceremony surrounded by all his supporters, Lord Hethrir planned to sacrifice Anakin on the altar of Waru. The newly arrived Rillao revealed to her son the truth about his father, and Tigris, realizing the infant Anakin had no choice in being "purified," turned on Hethrir, preventing the sacrifice. The unbalanced Skywalker dove into the Waru in Anakin's place, forcing Han and Leia to follow. Hethrir, realizing that Luke was a better sacrifice than Anakin anyway, believed his plans were finally coming to fruition. Rillao, however, launched herself onto Hethrir in a furious attack. Inside the golden ichors of the Waru, Han and Leia drew Luke back, aided by the cries of the Solo children. Enraged by the missed opportunity and Hethrir's failure to fulfill his bargain, Waru consumed Hethrir instead. Using Hethrir's Force power, the being returned to its home dimension, presumably killing Hethrir. thumb|left|250px|Hethrir With the crystallizing star dragged dangerously into the black hole, the entire Crseih Station was slaved to the Millennium Falcon and together they jumped to hyperspace to the Codru system. The remaining Proctors and many of Hethrir's supporters were rounded up and arrested on the station. With Hethrir, Fyyar and Desann killed, the Empire Reborn movement collapsed. Aware of its existence, Leia pledged to find the remaining Empire Youth saboteurs. Some remained at large and eventually joined Desann's former apprentice Tavion Axmis, in a Sith cult, called the Disciples of Ragnos. The cult was later destroyed by the joint efforts of Luke Skywalker, Kyle Katarn, and his new apprentice Jaden Korr.Star Wars: Jedi Knight: Jedi Academy The Republic claimed the worldship and Crseih Station, and returned the other kidnapped children to their families. Some of the children, most notably the Chironian Lusa, went on to join the Junior Jedi Academy on Yavin 4.Young Jedi Knights: The Emperor's Plague Crseih Station was eventually moved to orbit the planet Pakuuni.The Essential Guide to Planets and Moons Hethrir's slaveships were recovered, and the Firrerreo people eventually settled on the planet Belderone, made welcome by another former dark Jedi, Flint.The Essential Guide to Alien Species Hethrir's captured worldcraft were studied by Republic engineers, including a former designer of the Death Star, Bevel Lemelisk, and the technology was later used in the New Class project.The Essential Chronology Finally, Hethrir's dream of a resurgent Empire would never be realized with the Imperial Remnant driven back to a paltry number of sectors in the Outer Rim. It would later sign a treaty with the Republic, the Bastion Accords, ending the long Galactic Civil War.Vision of the Future Despite this, Hethrir's past actions, particularly his attitude towards alien individuals, would accelerate the growth of anti-Human sentiments among alien peoples and individuals such as Lusa, who joined the Diversity Alliance as a result. Hethrir was a fully trained Dark Jedi. He was trained in lightsaber combat and the arts of the dark side of the Force by Darth Vader. He could suppress other people's Force potential, keeping them from using the Force, and perform various feats of telekinesis, including a technique that would cause a great nosebleed to an opponent before killing it. Despite his great power, he knew he didn't have the same potential as young Anakin Solo and therefore planned to sacrifice him to Waru to increase his own power. In Young Jedi Knights: Jedi Bounty, Hethrir is referred to as Human, despite the characters making this claim having known he was a Firrerreo. However, since these characters are affiliated with the anti-Human Diversity Alliance extremist organization, they may have been deliberately spreading disinformation and anti-Human propaganda. This does not, however, explain why the Solo twins did not dispute the claim despite knowing it to be false. In fact, in Young Jedi Knights: Delusions of Grandeur, Jaina Solo comments that "certainly Hethrir had been Human." *The Crystal Star *Before the Storm *The New Rebellion *Young Jedi Knights: Delusions of Grandeur *Young Jedi Knights: Jedi Bounty *The New Jedi Order: Agents of Chaos I: Hero's Trial *Millennium Falcon *The Essential Guide to Characters *Star Wars Encyclopedia *The Essential Guide to Alien Species *The Dark Side Sourcebook *The New Essential Guide to Characters *The New Essential Chronology *Threats of the Galaxy *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia *Jedi Academy Training Manual }} Category:Bureaucrats of the Galactic Empire Category:Dark side adepts Category:Empire Reborn members Category:Enslavers Category:Firrerreo Category:Imperial warlords Category:Individuals with he/him pronouns Category:Legal professionals Category:Males Category:Sith acolytes and apprentices