3164
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Star_Wars_Adventure_Journal_10
Star Wars Adventure Journal 10
3457

The Star Wars Adventure Journal 10 is the tenth issue of the role-playing magazine Star Wars Adventure Journal. It was published by West End Games in May of 1996 and contained several articles and short stories. Take a fascinating voyage through the Star Wars galaxy with The Official Star Wars Adventure Journal. Each issue features exciting adventures, new source material and tales from the Star Wars universe! The Star Wars Adventure Journal gives Star Wars fans original locations, characters and plots in their favorite fictional universe that they cannot find anywhere else. His body broken but his determination still whole, Daye Azur-Jamin struggles to serve the Rebellion, running guns to aliens fighting hard against Imperial domination that threatens their very existance. He doesn't suspect that his fiance, Tinian I'att, and her newfound mentor, the Wookiee bounty hunter Chenlambec, have targeted the aliens' charismatic leader, Agapos, as their next prey! Inspired by Agapos' truthful sayings, Daye must save the alien leader, Tinian and himself. Only Droids Serve the Maker is another Star wars adventure from New York Times bestselling author Kathy Tyers. Other features in this issue include: *A medic along on a commando mission must decide whether her abilities can save an Imperial prisoner, or if she can kill him to keep valuable secrets from the Empire — violating her oath to Do No Harm. *Visit the homeworlds of the Chadra-Fan, Gamorreans, Kubaz and Whipids in A Free-Trader's Guide to the Planets. *Toria Tell's Droid Journal provides an interesting array of new droids from a servant droid to the impressive public works droid. *Catch up with the latest news on events within the Star Wars universe with Galaxywide NewsNets. *Cracken's Rebel Operatives by C. Robert Carey *A Free-Trader's Guide to the Planets by Timothy O'Brien *Cracken's Rebel Field Guide: Slicing Aids by C. Robert Carey and J.P. Pietrzak *Toria Tell's Droid Journal by Christian Piccolo *Galaxywide NewsNets by Paul Sudlow *Alliance Intelligence Report: TIE Fighters by Timothy O'Brien *Wanted by Cracken by C. Robert Carey *Only Droids Serve the Maker by Kathy Tyers *Do No Harm by Erin Endom *The Capture of Imperial Hazard by Nora Mayers *Desperate Measures by Carolyn Golledge 10