3241
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Mako_Spince
Mako Spince
6536

Mako Spince was a Human male who was the son of an influential and important senator of the Galactic Republic. He worked as a smuggler until he was permanently crippled and eventually became a traffic controller on Nar Shaddaa. Although Mako had a sharp mind and was healthy, he decided to waste his time and his father's money. After the Clone Wars, Mako finally decided to join the military. Though he was only twenty, Mako was considered too old to join the Imperial Academy. Mako only managed to get in because of his father, and because advisors at the Academy believed that Mako would follow his father's example. Despite their hopes, Mako proved to be rather a nuisance to the Academy by disobeying orders and breaking rules. He made friends with Han Solo, and also with ZZ-4Z, the butler droid of Dean Horace Wyrmyr. Through the droid, Mako learned many secrets of the man's past. Mako's pranks went too far when he stole some antimatter and used it to blow up the Academy's Mascot Moon&mdash;he had only intended to blow the Academy's seal off of the face of the small "moon," but he underestimated the size of the explosion and inadvertently destroyed the entire satellite. For this catastrophe, Mako was expelled two years before his friend Han graduated. As he left the Academy, Mako stole ZZ-4Z, who was going to be used for scrap at the recycle plant. thumb|left|200px|Mako Spince Mako disappeared from the Imperial Academy's surrounding area and became a smuggler. He later helped Han Solo (who was later dismissed from the military for rescuing a Wookiee slave called Chewbacca) learn the smuggling trade. From then on, Han and Chewbacca followed Mako around as his sidekicks, and a short time into their work Han also won ZZ-4Z in a game of Sabacc. Mako and Han created their headquarters on Nar Shaddaa, and the money from their smuggling missions came reeling in. Their greatest venture together was the Battle of Nar Shaddaa. However, two years later, there was a major setback: When Mako was on a smuggling run in the Ottega system he was captured and abused by the NaQoit Bandits, forcing him to retire and ride a repulsor chair. Since he could no longer work as a smuggler, he became a traffic controller. He saw Han Solo before Han left Nar Shaddaa, but he would not meet his old friend until several years later. When Han Solo returned to Nar Shaddaa a decade later, a bitter and older Mako allowed him safe passage but contacted Boba Fett and Dengar so that he could get enough money to retire from his pitiful job. Unfortunately for the bounty hunters, Han and Leia Organa Solo escaped. The next time Han turned up, Mako contacted the Star Destroyer Invincible, but things were to turn fatal for Mako when Han piloted the Millennium Falcon behind Mako's traffic control pylon. The pylon was caught up in the Star Destroyer's tractor beam, spearing the craft and blowing both vehicles up. Mako's second double cross had been his final undoing. *The Hutt Gambit *Rebel Dawn *Dark Empire audio drama *Dark Empire 3 *Dark Empire 4 *Dark Empire II 2 *The New Jedi Order: Agents of Chaos I: Hero's Trial *Dark Empire endnotes *Dark Empire Sourcebook *Han Solo and the Corporate Sector Sourcebook *The Essential Guide to Characters *The Essential Guide to Droids *Star Wars Roleplaying Game Core Rulebook *Aurra Sing: Dawn of the Bounty Hunters *The New Essential Chronology *Star Wars: The Comics Companion *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Humans Category:Imperial Navy pilots of the Galactic Empire Category:Individuals with disabilities Category:Individuals with he/him pronouns Category:Males Category:Nar Shaddaa residents Category:Smugglers