3393
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Ewok_Celebration
Ewok Celebration
4029

}} The "Ewok Celebration," commonly known as "Yub Nub," is a 1983 song featured in Star Wars: Episode VI Return of the Jedi. It was published by Bantha Music and is administered by Warner-Tamerlane Publishing Corporation. The song appears in the final scene of the film during the celebration in the Ewok village. It was removed from the film in the Special Edition and replaced with a new piece by John Williams entitled "Victory Celebration." The music was written by John Williams, the Ewokese lyrics were written by ILM sound designer Ben Burtt, and the English (Basic) lyrics were written by John Williams's son, Joseph Williams. Also called the Ewok Freedom Song, it was performed by the London Symphony Orchestra. The Ewokese lyrics were sung by the Oakland Inspirational Choir, who performed other Ewokese sounds for the film.Galactic Phrase Book & Travel Guide Freedom, we got freedom; And now that we can be free, Come on and celebrate. Power, we got power; And now that we can be free, It's time to celebrate. Celebrate the freedom; Celebrate the power; Celebrate the glory; Celebrate the love. Glory, we found glory. The power showed us the light, And now we all live free. *Celebrate the light; (Freedom!) Celebrate the might; (Power!) Celebrate the fight; (Glory!) Celebrate the love. Celebrate the love. Celebrate the love. Glory, we found glory. The power showed us the light, And now we all live free. *Celebrate the light; (Freedom!) Celebrate the might; (Power!) Celebrate the fight; (Glory!) Celebrate the love. Celebrate the love. Celebrate the love. Celebrate the love.The Making of Return of the Jedi The original 1983 CD/LP version of the Return of the Jedi soundtrack (as well as the 1993 Anthology) utilizes a more subdued and alternate take of the theme which was different from the film version. *Star Wars: Battlefront II *Star Wars Trilogy: The Original Soundtrack Anthology *Star Wars: Episode VI Return of the Jedi soundtrack *LEGO Star Wars II: The Original Trilogy *Disney Infinity 3.0 *s "Niamos!"}} Category:Musical pieces