3799
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/PX-4_Mobile_Command_Base
PX-4 Mobile Command Base
7267

The PX-4 Mobile Command Base was a tracked, tactical command center manufactured by Nen-Carvon. Measuring 21.8 meters in length, the PX-4 Mobile Command Base was heavily armored and armed. Covered in a half meter thick metallic shell, the PX-4 had a command pod that was located in the center of the vehicle, encased in a further armored shell for maximum protection. The outer hull of the vehicle was covered in reflective shielding. Sensors and computers monitored all aspects of a battle as it was fought, relaying the information to the commander in the command pod, and providing up-to-the-minute analysis and tactical suggestions. Information was displayed via computer displays, holographic tactical displays, and communications arrays. Communications was also monitored, from standard Imperial channels, to enemy transmissions. A single Mk 1e/S heavy laser cannon was mounted on the top of the PX-4, on a slow-moving rotating turret. The weapon gave the PX-4 an offensive punch, but the vehicle was not intended to enter combat. The PX-4 employed tracked treads to move about the battlefield; speeds of 100 kilometers an hour were common, with some vehicles being reported at being able to achieve 200 kilometers an hour. The PX-4 could carry a metric ton of cargo, and consumable supplies for a week. Requiring a crew of three, one of whom served as the gunner, the PX-4 had room enough for seven passengers. thumb|left|250px|A PX-4 escorted by stormtroopers The PX-4 Mobile Command Base was employed by the Galactic Empire to provide safe transportation for commanders into hostile combat zones. It acted as a mobile headquarters, allowing the unit commander to travel with soldiers without exposing themselves to potential danger. Typically, the PX-4 was removed from the direct battlefield, allowing officers to make tactical and strategic decisions in safety. Deployment of the PX-4 was achieved through the use of landing craft. Commonly, LAAT/c dropships were employed, although they could also be slung beneath Sentinel-class landing craft. They were also part of the carried vehicle complement of the IF-120 landing craft.Galaxy at War On some worlds that were openly hostile to the Empire, planetary prefects and governors relied on the PX-4 to move around safely. Some were known to even live inside the PX-4, never leaving the armored interior. Governor Grigor employed a PX-4 during the Battle of Red Rock on the planet M'haeli. The vehicle was destroyed by Alliance to Restore the Republic forces during the fighting.River of Chaos 4 *River of Chaos 4 *Imperial Sourcebook *Galaxy Guide 3: The Empire Strikes Back *Death Star Technical Companion *Wanted by Cracken *Death Star Technical Companion, Second Edition *A Guide to the Star Wars Universe, Second Edition, Revised and Expanded *Star Wars Miniatures Battles Companion *Imperial Sourcebook, Second Edition *Galaxy Guide 11: Criminal Organizations *Star Wars Gamemaster Screen, Revised *Heroes & Rogues *Star Wars: The Roleplaying Game, Second Edition, Revised and Expanded *Galaxy Guide 3: The Empire Strikes Back, Second Edition *The Force Unleashed Campaign Guide *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia *Galaxy at War Category:Crawler and wheeled vehicle models Category:Nen-Carvon products Category:Vehicle classes of the Galactic Empire