3756
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Contemplanys_Hermi
Contemplanys Hermi
18422

*Separatist Crisis *Clone WarsSuns of Fortune |proposedby=Garm Bel Iblis |image=File:YoungBelIblis.jpg |name=Contemplanys Hermi |dateproposed=*c. 16,700 BBY *470 BBY The New Essential Chronology dates the Corellian attempt to become independent from the Galactic Republic to 470 BBY. *22 BBY is dated to 13:3:14 of the Great ReSynchronization which translates to 22 BBY per the reasoning here. |government=Galactic Republic |legislativebody=Galactic Senate |result=Corellia and its constituencies are able to unilaterally withdraw from Senate duties |side1=22 BBY: *Garm Bel Iblis *Shyla Merricope |side2=22 BBY: *Palpatine *Orn Free Taa *Ister Paddie |otherkeyindividuals= }} Contemplanys Hermi was a clause in the Galactic Constitution of the Galactic Republic that applied only to the Corellian sector and its constituencies, which was home to one of the Core Founders, Corellia. Contemplanys Hermi allowed for Corellia to close its borders and recall its delegation from the Galactic Senate, thereby surrendering its veto power while remaining inside the Republic. The enactment of the proviso carried several limitations on non-Corellians within the sector, and also prevented the Republic from calling on the people of Corellia and the Corellian Security Force to contribute to the Republic Military. It was included in the Constitution in acknowledgment of Corellia's contributions toward founding the galactic government. The clause was a proviso added in approximately 16,700 BBY and was so rarely invoked that it was considered obscure. One recorded instance was Corellia's attempted secession in 470 BBY. In a much later incident, Corellian Senator Garm Bel Iblis claimed Contemplanys Hermi during the Separatist Crisis so as to remove himself and his sector from the debate surrounding the Military Creation Act, which Bel Iblis believed would threaten Corellian sovereignty. Senator Bel Iblis was highly criticized for the move, but he maintained his stance against the Grand Army of the Republic throughout the Clone Wars and continued to neglect attending regular sessions of the Galactic Senate until compelled to do so during the Imperial Period. Contemplanys Hermi was a proviso included in the Galactic Constitution, the document that established the laws and principles by which the Galactic Republic's government would operate.The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia The term Contemplanys Hermi was a phrase in Olys Corellisi that, when translated to Basic, meant "meditative solitude." The proviso was aptly named, as its invocation allowed for the Corellian sector to close its borders and adopt a stance of neutrality while maintaining its standing as a member of the Republic&mdash;it was noted that Contemplanys Hermi was not an act of secession, but rather a declaration of suspended diplomatic relations. It could be invoked by the Corellian delegation in the Republic's Galactic Senate, which would result in the delegation's withdrawal from Senate proceedings. As such, Corellia surrendered its veto power for the duration of Contemplanys Hermi. This clause applied only to the Corellian sector and could be used by no other delegation. While the clause was in effect, the Corellian sector was inaccessible to all except for native and naturalized citizens of the region. For those to whom Corellia was not home, special permission was needed from the Corellian Security Force for travel into and out of the sector. Trade and commerce vessels were required to unload their cargoes on Outlier systems, where they would then be retrieved by transports of the Corellian Merchants' Guild and brought to the inner worlds. In addition, all off-duty and reserve members of the Corellian Security Force were activated during Contemplanys Hermi. This also barred the Republic from absorbing members of the CSF into an interplanetary defense force for the preservation of the galactic government and prohibited the government from stationing soldiers from such a defense force on Corellian worlds. Despite the restrictions on non-native and non-naturalized citizens, non-Corellian businesses that were located within the sector were allowed to continue operating under the stipulation that they abide by the standing travel and shipping restrictions. To be in full compliance, these businesses usually had to purchase membership in the Corellian Merchants' Guild. thumb|left|200px|Corellia The planet Corellia and its respective sector played a pivotal role in founding the Galactic Republic in 25,053 BBY.Star Wars: The Old Republic Encyclopedia dates the founding of the Galactic Republic to 25,053 BBY. In recognition of its distinct society and contributions to the Republic, the Core Founder was afforded the Contemplanys Hermi clause&mdash;put into the constitution after the First Alsakan Conflict in approximately 16,700 BBY. The reasons Corellia cited for the clause; another inevitable war between fellow Core planets Coruscant and Alsakan, and sympathy with the latter but having deep ties to the Grand Companies and the Corellian Run. The clause allowed Corellia to separate itself from the affairs of the Republic for a period of time including if Coruscant and Alsakan resumed hostilities. The clause rarely came into use and eventually fell into obscurity, but was brought to the forefront of galactic events when, in 470 BBY, Corellia made a bid to become an independent governmental body. The attempt ultimately failed, and Contemplanys Hermi was largely forgotten. It would not be mentioned again until the Separatist Crisis in the latter days of the Galactic Republic, during which a number of star systems and sectors declared their intention to secede from what they considered to be the "corrupt" Republic and form a new government based on open market capitalism and limited interference from the interstellar state. During this period, the Galactic Senate of the Republic began debating the Military Creation Act, an initiative to create an Army of the Republic to defend the government should the growing independence movement ever turn violent.The New Essential Chronology From the time of the announcement of the Military Creation Act's vote date, the people of Corellia were critical of the legislation, particularly those in the planet's capital city of Coronet. In the Galactic Congress, Corellian Senator Garm Bel Iblis was among the most outspoken opponents of the act, believing that it was not only the wrong course for the Republic, but for his constituents as well. After a week of closed-door meetings between the Senator and Corellian Diktat Shyla Merricope, Bel Iblis returned to the Senate on 3:14 in 22 BBY and invoked Contemplanys Hermi, thereby pulling his delegation out of the debate over the Military Creation Act and insulating his sector from its outcome. Historically, Contemplanys Hermi was a measure that had caused the rest of the Senate to reconsider actions that Corellians thought perilous. Ultimately Bel Iblis's gamble did not work and the Military Creation Act was passed and the galaxy was torn apart by war. During his address to the Senate on the matter, Bel Iblis reassured his colleagues that no Articles of Secession were tendered by the Corellian government and that the invocation was not a step towards joining the Separatist movement. On Corellia, Diktat Merricope told Corellia Sector Newsfeed that the move was intended to protect the people of Corellia and to preserve the sector for its natives. In response to the news, Supreme Chancellor Palpatine issued an offer of parley to Confederate leader Count Dooku, which ultimately fell on deaf ears. Corellia remained a neutral sector for the remainder of the Separatist Crisis and continued its isolationist stance into the resultant Clone Wars. Shortly after the end of the Clone Wars and the establishment of the Galactic Empire with Chancellor Palpatine's Declaration of a New Order, Corellia's "meditative solitude" was brought to an end when Senator Bel Iblis was called upon to attend meetings of the Imperial SenateDark Lord: The Rise of Darth Vader after Emperor Palpatine struck the proviso from the Constitution as an ancient relic. Future intergalactic governments would prove to be less tolerant of Corellian isolationism than the Republic had been, signaling an end to the special recognition granted to the sector that had been embodied in Contemplanys Hermi. The seclusion of the Corellian sector in the post-Palpatine era was actively opposed by New Republic Chief of State Leia Organa Solo, and the isolation movement of 40 ABY was illegal under the provisions of the Galactic Alliance Common Charter.Legacy of the Force: Betrayal The latter instance ultimately led to the Second Galactic Civil War in an effort to end Corellia's isolationist tendencies.The Essential Atlas thumb|right|200px|Senator Orn Free Taa, one of Bel Iblis's most vocal critics Upon Senator Bel Iblis's declaration of Contemplanys Hermi in 22 BBY, he was met with harsh criticism from his colleagues in the Senate. He and his delegation departed the Senate Convocation Chamber amid cries of protest and had to be escorted from the Senate Dome by Corellian Security Personnel and Senate Guards as they pushed through journalists and outraged representatives. The upheaval was yet another blow to the already crumbling Galactic Republic. Supreme Chancellor Palpatine, to whom Bel Iblis was commonly a political opponent, was attending a financial conference on Aargau during the session, but did release a statement regarding the Corellian delegation's move. In the statement, he expressed his disappointment that a sector so close to the heart of the Republic lacked faith that the democratic vote on the Military Creation Act would yield a positive outcome for the greater galaxy. Twi'lek Senator Orn Free Taa of Ryloth was less measured in his response to HoloNet News reporters, branding the invocation as hypocrisy and citing Bel Iblis's statements two years prior regarding the legality of secession. The Twi'lek went on to laud his sector's loyalty to the Republic through many tumultuous periods and decried Corellia's lack of similar fidelity as "shameful." Human Senator Ister Paddie of Sermeria echoed Free Taa's sentiment, condemning Contemplanys Hermi as a selfish act, given that Corellia was one of the wealthiest sectors in the Republic and totally self-sufficient. Paddie stressed that his constituent sector of Locris was far less affluent, but still remained committed to supporting the Republic in its hour of crisis. Contemplanys Hermi was first introduced in HoloNet News Vol. 531 47, a 2002 update to the HoloNet News website. HoloNet News was a regular online feature preceding the release of Star Wars: Episode II Attack of the Clones. The article regarding Contemplanys Hermi, "Corellia Closes Borders," was part of a larger narrative that took place throughout HoloNet News regarding the debate over the Military Creation Act. *The New Essential Chronology *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia *The Essential Guide to Warfare *Suns of Fortune Category:Alsakan Conflicts laws and acts Category:Amendments to the Galactic Constitution Category:Corellian culture Category:Separatist Crisis laws and acts