3839
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/The_Black_Fleet_Crisis
The Black Fleet Crisis
12192

|last date=December 1996 |media type= |timeline=16 ABY-17 ABY (with flashbacks to 4 ABY) |num books=3 |preceded by=The Crystal Star |followed by=The New Rebellion }} The Black Fleet Crisis, also known as The Black Fleet Crisis Trilogy, is a trilogy of novels set in 16&ndash;17 ABY. The plot focuses on the New Republic's political crisis and military threats of the xenophobic Yevetha. At the same time, Luke Skywalker sets out to discover the truth behind his mother. The Black Fleet Crisis trilogy consists of the novels Before the Storm, Shield of Lies, and Tyrant's Test. This trilogy delves more deeply into traditional military science fiction than most Star Wars novels did prior to The New Jedi Order. A fair amount of each novel deals with fleet maneuvers and battles, as well as descriptions of warships and their crews. A hardcover omnibus of all three books was published by the Science Fiction Book Club in 1997. THE PAST: Eight months after the Battle of Endor, Yevethan dockworkers who have been indentured by the Empire on N'zoth rise up against their outnumbered Imperial masters, conquering the Black Fleet warships stationed there and claiming the vessels as their own. The xenophobic species spends years mastering starship technology, killing many Imperials and enslaving crewers to ready the ships for strikes against their neighbor worlds. THE PRESENT: Years later, during a rare moment of peace in the galaxy, Chief of State Leia Organa Solo proposes bolstering New Republic defenses with new warships, a politically unpopular stance during such tranquil times. Meanwhile, an introspective Luke Skywalker leaves his Jedi academy in the care of his most experienced students as he adopts the life of an anchorite, retreating from society to contemplate the nature of the Force. Despite his desire for solitude, he is visited by Akanah Pell. She claims to be a Fallanassi, a member of a religious sect able to tap into the Force – or, as they call it, the White Current – to unique effects. Akanah pleads for Luke to help her find her missing people, appealing to him by revealing that Luke's mother might have been Nashira, a member of the Fallanassi order. Skywalker has long wondered about his mother, but knows nothing of her. Compelled by her request, Luke agrees to help Akanah. Prompted by a spirit of adventure, Lando Calrissian leads a xenoarcheological search - accompanied by Lobot, R2-D2, and C-3PO – to track the movements of the mysterious Teljkon Vagabond, a "ghost ship" of unknown origins spotted sporadically throughout the galaxy. Lando finds and boards the strange alien vessel, which then disappears into hyperspace. Unaware of Yevethan history, and against the council of her advisers, Leia meets with Nil Spaar, leader of the Duskhan League of the Yevethan Protectorate, to discuss a political alliance. New Republic Intelligence suspects Spaar of hiding something, and Admiral Hiram Drayson has an unarmed scout ship perform a recon of the Yevethan territory, the Koornacht Cluster. Spaar destroys the scout, then publicly excoriates Leia and the New Republic for such aggressive and provocative trespassing. As he engages in this highly volatile theater, Leia's opponents in the government harp on her blood relation with Darth Vader to suggest she's building a new Empire. Spaar's fanatical followers attack neighboring worlds with their captured Imperial warships, embarking on a genocidal swath of destruction they gloriously proclaim as the Great Purge. Although a survivor from the Purge brings news of this violence to the New Republic, Leia is too politically hobbled to effectively counter it. The New Republic citizenry has grown comfortable with peace; they will shed no blood in a distant foreign war. Luke and Akanah follow the tenuous trail of the Fallanassi to scattered worlds such as Lucazec, Teyr, and Atzerri. After an extended period alone, Luke finds his weeks of travel with Akanah, and the two share the stirrings of a kindling relationship. Akanah is not what she seems, however, and Luke begins to have his doubts about the veracity of her story. He soon comes to realize that Akanah has been using him to find her people and that the tales of Nashira are unfounded. Leia demands that Nil Spaar surrender the worlds he has conquered or face New Republic reprisal, but the smug Yevethan warlord does not back down. A battle erupts over Doornik-319, where Spaar callously uses New Republic hostages as a shield. Once again, Leia's political enemies turn this against her, characterizing the danger to New Republic citizens as Leia's fault, rather than Spaar's. Opposition Senators rally, calling Leia to step down or face impeachment. Exacerbating an already terrible situation, Han Solo – temporarily given command of a New Republic task force – is captured by the Yevetha. Han is beaten, humiliated, and used as pawn against Leia, but she refuses to surrender or abandon her office on claims she is too involved in the situation. Spaar underestimates his opponent, and his cruelty toward his captives unites the New Republic behind Leia's declaration of war against the Duskhan League. Luke and Akanah finally find the Fallanassi hiding in plain sight on J't'p'tan, a world sundered by the Yevethan purges. The followers of the White Current use their unique illusory abilities to conceal their presence – a power that could be employed to great advantage against the New Republic's enemies. Learning of Han's capture, Chewbacca returns from a pilgrimage to Kashyyyk aboard a newly upgraded Millennium Falcon and launches a Wookiee mission to rescue his beloved friend. This harrowing task – the infiltration of a Super Star Destroyer and the successful extraction of a prisoner – becomes a successful rite of passage for Chewbacca's son, Lumpawarrump. Lumpy adopts the name Waroo upon being accepted as an adult. The New Republic begins a concerted attack against the Yevethan Black Fleet. The alien aggressors are momentarily stymied by the appearance of an illusory fleet, conjured by Luke's newfound Fallanassi allies. Then Spaar faces a long-overdue betrayal from his Imperial slaves, who retake their ships and flee into the depths of galactic core. Spaar is ejected into hyperspace in an escape pod, left to die as his plans of conquest crumble. Finally, after weeks of hopscotching around the galaxy, the alien Teljkon Vagabond arrives at the seemingly dead world of Maltha Obex – its point of origin. The ship was launched by the long-extinct Qella in anticipation of a catastrophic ice age and contains the technology necessary to thaw and return life to the planet. Luke and Leia's heritage as Darth Vader's children was known to the public at this point in the timeline – enough so that it was used as the foundation of political attacks against Leia. The public revelation of their bloodline has never been depicted in a story. The original Marvel Comics set after Return of the Jedi portrayed Leia and Luke vowing to keep their ancestry a secret at the time. The Thrawn Trilogy only works if this fact is not known – the well informed Thrawn would never have risked sending Noghri after Luke and Leia if he knew they were Vader's offspring. At the time The Black Fleet Crisis series was published, nothing was known of Luke and Leia's mother. The story of Padmé Amidala was still being developed by George Lucas and was a closely guarded secret to be properly unveiled through the course of Episodes I-III. As such, the plot line of finding Nashira was always intended to be a red herring, and in a galaxy of the New Republic, Luke and Leia have no access to records that would connect Amidala to Anakin Skywalker. Indeed, it would not be until 35-36 ABY that they learn anything tangible about their mother, in the pages of the Dark Nest Trilogy (2005). *Before the Storm *Shield of Lies *Tyrant's Test *Star Wars Insider 94 *The Essential Reader's Companion |part2=Shield of Lies |part3=Tyrant's Test }} Category:Legends novel series