3911
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Star_Wars:_Tales_of_the_Jedi_%E2%80%93_The_Golden_Age_of_the_Sith
Star Wars: Tales of the Jedi – The Golden Age of the Sith
10273

*Russell Walks *Duncan Fegredo |editor= |publisher=Dark Horse Comics |start date=July 31, 1996 |end date=February 12, 1997 |schedule=Monthly |format=Completed |issues=6 |timeline=5000 BBYStar Wars: The Comics Companion |series= |preceded by= |followed by= }} Star Wars: Tales of the Jedi – The Golden Age of the Sith is a sub-series of the Tales of the Jedi series of comics. It ran from July 31, 1996 to February 12, 1997, then compiled as a trade paperback on August 6, 1997. It tells the story leading up to the Great Hyperspace War, as well as the final battle in the Unification Wars of the Koros system. The history of the Old Republic has become legend: how the bold explorations of young Gav and Jori Daragon brought two galactic empires crashing together, how Odan-Urr became a powerful Jedi, and how the seven worlds of the Koros system were finally united by the wise and skilled Empress Teta. Five millennia before the birth of Luke Skywalker and the fall of Palpatine's Empire, our story unfolds&hellip; In 5000 BBY, Odan-Urr is studying the history of the exiled Dark Jedi who became the Sith Lords when his master, Ooroo, sends him to the Koros system to help Empress Teta fight the Unification Wars and unite the seven worlds located in the system. Once he arrives on Cinnagar, he helps to conquer the last planet, Kirrek, with a technique he had learned about in his studies, battle meditation. But even with this technique he can't prevent casualties from occurring; among them are two blockade runners, Hok and Timar Daragon. With their parents dead, Gav and Jori pop Daragon get their ship, Starbreaker 12, back from Aarrba the Hutt, who is holding it back as collateral. With the ship Gav and Jori become hyperspace explorers, but their latest route proves less-than-successful; they just barely make it through. They make it back to Cinnagar, but discover that their ship is heavily damaged. Aarrba the Hutt agrees to make the repairs, but he won't give their ship back until they have paid all the bills. Ssk Kahorr sends one of his drone-ships along the route discovered by Gav and Jori, but it is destroyed when it passes too close to Primus Goluud, a red supergiant. Ssk Kahorr isn't pleased with this, and sends a pair of bounty hunters after the two hyperspace explorers. But they are then saved by two Jedi, Odan-Urr and Memit Nadill. They advise them to leave the Koros system, because of safety-reasons. Gav and Jori steal back the Starbreaker 12 and desperately flee the system with random hyperspace-coordinates. On Korriban, a planet on the far side of the galaxy, a funeral procession is being held for Marka Ragnos, who was the Dark Lord of the Sith. The procession is led by Ludo Kressh, but just when the tomb is about to be closed, his nemesis, Naga Sadow, arrives on the scene. A fight about whom should be the next Dark Lord ensues between the two rivals, but they are stopped by the ghost of Marka Ragnos, who warns them of what is to come. Meanwhile, back in the Koros system, Odan-Urr has a premonition about the evil Jedi banished centuries ago. He tells Empress Teta about his dreams, and she promises that she would raise the matter on at the Galactic Senate on Coruscant. Back on Korriban, the Starbreaker 12 arrives, and Gav and Jori are captured by the Sith forces. On Ziost, capital of the Sith Empire, the Sith Lords discuss what to do with the prisoners. After a long debate, it is decided to have Gav and Jori killed. But Naga Sadow, seeing in these prisoners a chance to expand the Sith Empire, does not give up that easily. He sends one of his Massassi warriors to retrieve the weapons onboard their ship. He hatches a plan to capture the prisoners for himself, and use them to regain contact with the Republic. Together with his most loyal Massassi warriors, Sadow frees the Daragons. But to keep his identity hidden from the other Sith Lords, he slaughters everyone in his path, including his old mentor Simus. He leaves a Republic blaster behind, to let others think it was an attack by the Republic. Gav and Jori are sent to his stronghold on Khar Shian, and Sadow returns to Ziost, where an urgent meeting is held between the Sith Lords. The other Sith are indecisive about what to do next, and in the confusion Sadow claims to be named the new Dark Lord of the Sith. The other Sith Lords, except Ludo Kressh and his supporters, agree to this plan. Sadow immediately calls upon the others to prepare their ships and warriors so they can launch a pre-emptive attack the Republic first, before it can prepare itself for war. Empress Teta and her two Jedi advisors arrive at Coruscant, where she addresses the Senate about Odan-Urr's premonition, but the people listening do not believe her. Even without the help of the Republic, Teta decides to prepare her own forces to meet the oncoming Sith-threat. In Naga Sadow's hidden fortress on the dark side of Khar Shian, Gav Daragon is trained in the ways of the Sith by Naga Sadow, who sends his Massassi-warriors to retrieve the Starbreaker 12 from Ziost. Sadow then travels to his decoy-fortress on Khar Delba, where Jori Daragon is being held. On Ziost, Sadow's loyal Massassi steal the Starbreaker 12, but not without leaving evidence of their Master's involvement. Ludo Kressh discovers this evidence, and together with his supporters, Horak-mul and Dor Gal-ram, he prepares to attack Sadow's fortress on Khar Delba. Meanwhile, the Starbreaker 12 arrives there. Ludo Kressh's forces arrive at Khar Delba and open fire upon Naga Sadow's apparently-defenseless fortress. Sadow convinces Jori Daragon that she must return to the Republic before the fortress is destroyed. Though reluctant to leave her brother behind, she agrees After the Starbreaker 12 escapes into hyperspace, Sadow calls in his fleet that he had hidden on the dark side of Khar Shian. But that is not all &ndash; Massassi warriors on the ships of Horak-mul and Dol Gal-ram kill other the Sith Lords and direct their fire against the ships of Ludo Kressh, who has no choice but to retreat. After this victory, Naga Sadow prepares his forces to invade the Galactic Republic, using the tracing-beacon hidden on the Starbreaker 12. *Tales of the Jedi – The Golden Age of the Sith 0 *Tales of the Jedi – The Golden Age of the Sith 1 *Tales of the Jedi – The Golden Age of the Sith 2 *Tales of the Jedi – The Golden Age of the Sith 3 *Tales of the Jedi – The Golden Age of the Sith 4 *Tales of the Jedi – The Golden Age of the Sith 5 File:TalesOfTheJedi-TheGoldenAgeOfTheSith0.jpg|Cover File:TOTJ_GoldenAgeoftheSith_Promo.png|1996 Promo *Star Wars: Tales of the Jedi – The Golden Age of the Sith trade paperback *Star Wars Omnibus: Tales of the Jedi Volume 1 *Star Wars Legends Epic Collection: Tales of the Jedi Vol. 2 *Star Wars Legends: Tales of the Jedi Omnibus Category:Dark Horse Comics comic miniseries Category:Legends comic miniseries *5