4419
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Order_of_the_Ffib
Order of the Ffib
6382

The Order of the Ffib, also known as the Ffib, was a theocratic sect based on Lorahns. The Ffib saw themselves as the only true faith in the galaxy and regarded all others as false. The sect also claimed to be reaching for enlightenment and promised redemption from sins. They were governed by a council of priests based at a Great Temple on Lorahns. The Ffib also sent missionaries off-world to spread their beliefs, resulting in communities on a variety of planets that pledged their loyalty only to the Ffib authority on Lorahns. In some cases, these branches were considered a threat to order on particular planets and have been expelled&mdash;sometimes violently. There was a long list of martyrs who had died serving the Ffib order and were honored as holy beings. These missionaries also served as diplomatic representatives and agents of the Ffib, and often participated in espionage and shady dealings, contradicting their beliefs. One such branch were the Daughters of the Ffib. This theocratic sect was also extremely anti-Jedi due to their refusal to convert to the Ffib sect and the fact that the Order was aware that the Ffib priests and missionaries were charlatans and agents. To support their hatred for the Jedi, the Ffib claimed that the Jedi had been responsible for numerous atrocities which were mainly false. Only one such claim was partially true. The infamous pirate Reess Kairn - a former Jedi - ransacked the Ffib's Grand Temple, destroying sacred texts, stealing priceless artifacts, and slaying four Ffib priests during his getaway. However, they ignored the fact that Kairn had long ceased to be a Jedi and violated their principles when he perpetrated this act. thumb|left|300px|[[Reess Kairn attacking Ffib's Grand Temple]] The Ffib were first established during the last centuries of the Galactic Republic on Lorahns. At first, the Ffib were just one of the many cults on the planet, though they eventually converted most of Lorahns's population through the skilled promotion of their beliefs. Thus, Lorahns became one of the galaxy's theocracies, with another being the planet Monastery which was controlled by the Order of the Sacred Circle and the Pius Dea sect which ruled the Republic from 12,000 BBY to 11,000 BBY through Supreme Chancellor Contispex I and his descendants. During their reign over the centuries, they suppressed all other forms of religion and ideology on Lorahns, with violations being regarded as treason and punished severely. The Ffib also had their own security force, which they used to keep the planetary population under control. The governments of other planets and systems tolerated the Ffib's rule over Lorahns since they kept the planet stable and non-aggressive. Desiring galactic domination, the Ffib sent missionaries offworld. These missionaries became a common sight on many worlds and managed to set up communities that were loyal to the Ffib authority on Lorahns. In some cases, these branches were considered a threat to order on particular planets and have been expelled&mdash;sometimes violently. There was a long list of martyrs who had died serving the Ffib order. The Ffib honored them as holy beings. These missionaries also served as diplomatic representatives and agents of the Ffib, and often participated in espionage and shady dealings, contradicting what they preached to their believers. In 32 BBY, the Ffib order collaborated with the Gran Protectorate of Malastare in a plot to help the Lannik terrorist group Red Iaro make an assassination attempt on the lawful Lannik ruler and a group of Jedi. The Ffib survived the Clone Wars and were not persecuted by the Galactic Empire, possibly due to their hatred of the Jedi. On one occasion, the infamous bounty hunter Boba Fett once earned a 500,000 credit reward for capturing Nivek'Yppiks, a Ffib heretic wanted by the sect's authorities. *Star Wars (1998) 14 *Star Wars (1998) 16 *The Bounty Hunters: Aurra Sing *Imperial Commando: 501st *The Essential Guide to Characters *Star Wars Encyclopedia *Star Wars: The Comics Companion *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia *The Essential Atlas *Far Horizons *Star Wars: Force and Destiny Core Rulebook Category:Religious organizations