4469
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Ambassadorial_Sector
Ambassadorial Sector
4372

|fauna= |flora= |interest=*500 Republica |affiliation= }} The Ambassadorial Sector was a location in Coruscant's Galactic City. The Ambassadorial Sector was considered a part of the Senate District, and 500 Republica was its premier landmark.Labyrinth of Evil During the attack on Coruscant by General Grievous in 19 BBY, there was a rumour that buildings in the district had been toppled by the Separatist assault. Located around 30km from the Legislative District, the embassy quarter was a rectangular area of some 25 square kilometers, and in the time of the Galactic Empire it could only accommodate around three hundred delegations, a relatively small proportion of the total number of embassies in Imperial City. The embassies themselves resembled spacious villas, and the area seemed more like a peaceful suburb than a hub of diplomatic activity, but having a diplomatic residence here was a measure of a planet's influence in the Galaxy. However, this also made it easier for the Empire to spy on the delegations of important systems. Planets with compounds in the district in included Alderaan, Chandrila, Vernadya, Pergitor XI, and Angora. The embassies themselves were diplomatic enclaves, regarded as the territory of the governments that they represented, but the parts of the district outside the ambassadorial compounds also had a special status, forming a small self-governing town within the wider cityscape, administered by a council composed of a representative of each embassy. The areas of their responsibility included the groundways, security posts, public infrastructure and a small spaceport. In 0 ABY, shortly after the destruction of Alderaan, the Empire ordered the military occupation of the entire ambassadorial district. Some delegations opted to accept without resistance, others attempted to leave the planet through the spaceport, while others chose armed resistance. Much of the violence was focused at the spaceport, where arriving Imperial assault troops faced a two-hour battle, driven back three times by determined counter-attacks from ambassadorial personnel before they finally succeeded in establishing control. During the fighting, a diplomatic ship from Vernadya crashed while trying to take off, and the ambassador and his guards were lynched by a frenzied mob. Elsewhere, many embassies offered determined resistance, though with little coordination between them. A few hours into the attack, the embassy of Pergitor XI abruptly exploded, seemingly due to the Empire deploying heavy weaponry. The embassies of Chandrila, Alderaan and Angora were the last to fall, after seven hours of standoff. A final attempt at negotiations between the besiegers and defenders proved unsuccessful, and the three compounds were stormed in a decisive, ten-minute assault. *Labyrinth of Evil *Inside the Worlds of Star Wars: Episode I *Star Wars: Complete Locations Category:Coruscant districts