4589
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Holiday_(disambiguation)
Holiday (disambiguation)
5119

There were many holidays in the galaxy. *The Boonta Eve was an annual holiday and festival celebrated on Tatooine. It honored the rise of Boonta Hestilic Shad'ruu to godhood. The Boonta Eve Classic Podrace was held to commemorate the festival. *Empire Day was an annual holiday held to commemorate the rise of the Galactic Empire. *Equinox Day was an annual holiday that marked the beginning of autumn on the planet Hosnian Prime. Sunsail races were held in the planet's capital to commemorate the holiday. *The Festival of Light was a Naboo tradition, which celebrated the anniversary of the planet Naboo joining the Galactic Republic. *Q'anah was an ancient festival celebrated on the planet Asmeru. *All-Species Week was a holiday that honored Coruscant's high level of diversity of sentient species. *Festival of the Ancestors was a festival that occured every 42 years on Pasaana honoring the past and looking to the future. *Expansion Week came just before the upper class Capital Season. It fell between the months of Selona and Telona. *Harvest Day was first observed by the original settlers of the sector. The origins of the holiday have been lost over time, but it was believed that the settlers traditionally commemorated the time of harvesting their crops on this day. In later years, it was simply a day off from work. Harvest Day fell between the months of Yelona and Relona on the Tapani local calendar. *Productivity Day fell between the months of Nelona and Helona. *Tapani Day was held annually just after the month of Kelona, and before the month of Selona. *Shelova Week was a traditional Herglic holiday that celebrated commerce and family, two things which were interrelated to the Herglic race. Shelova Week was a time to exchange gifts, make new business alliances, discuss trade arrangements, and spend time with family members. As the Human population of Tapani Sector began interacting with the Herglics, they too began celebrating the holiday, although many Humans simply took vacation instead of also developing business partnerships. On the Tapani local calendar, Shelova Week fell between the months of Helona and Melona. *Winter Fete was a holiday which originally marked the winter equinox on the planet Pelagon. The settlers there were the first to celebrate Winter Fete, and when they settled other planets in the sector, the holiday went with them. Over time, the holiday was modified to coincide with Coruscant's Fete Week. In the Galactic Civil War&ndash;era Tapani local calendar, Winter Fete fell on the last week of the year, following the month of Welona. *Independence Week in the Freeworlds Territory within Tapani sector was from 10th of Relona through the 15th. It celebrated the Freeworlds separation from the Expanse. *Life Day was a Wookiee holiday celebrated on Kashyyyk. *Mofat was a Polneye month or season. Plat Mallar reported that the Yevethan attack on Polneye took place on the 40th day of Mofat. *Month of Plenty was a Weequay holy season that honored the moon god Quay. Temples on the planet Sriluur which were dedicated to Quay had an open skylight in their roof which allowed Weequay priests to track the moon's progress during this month. *Thulpin was the summer growing season on the planet Draenell's Point. It lasted about 14 standard months, making up about a fourth of the planet's long year. *Boonta Eve on Tatooine *Carnival Week, a patriotic Imperial holiday on Coruscant *Festival of Four Honorings, a week-long festival on Wukkar celebrating stone, air, fire, and water *Cordel Cove Winter Carnival on Neftali, celebrating the ice planet's natural beauty *Republic Day, annual event celebrating the foundation of the Galactic Republic *Empire Day, annual event celebrating the foundation of the Galactic Empire *Harvest Day, annual festival celebrated in the city of Mos Eisley on Tatooine *High Day, a galactic holiday