4656
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Joruus_C%27baoth
Joruus C'baoth
52277

|gender=Male |pronouns=He/him |donor=Jorus C'baoth |height=1.9 metersThe Essential Guide to Characters |mass= |hair=White |feathers= |eyes=Brown |skin=Tan |cyber= |families= |parents= |partners= |siblings= |children= |affiliation=Galactic Empire |masters= |apprentices=Luuke SkywalkerDark Force Rising }} Joruus C'baoth (pronounced /dʒo'ɹus sə'beoθ/) was an insane Dark Jedi who played an essential role in the Thrawn campaign. A clone of the Jedi Master Jorus C'baoth, who led Outbound Flight, he was created by Palpatine in an attempt to perfect the cloning process of Force users. After killing the Guardian of the Imperial storehouse at Mount Tantiss on Wayland, C'baoth used his Force powers to rule over the natives of Wayland. In 9 ABY, Grand Admiral Thrawn discovered the existence of the storehouse and traveled to Wayland. He succeeded in recruiting the Dark Jedi to join him in his campaign to destroy the New Republic, promising that he would capture Luke Skywalker and Leia Organa Solo and her unborn twins so that he could take them as his apprentices. In exchange, Thrawn would have C'baoth make good use of his battle meditation to enhance his forces' performance. C'baoth later attempted to lure Luke Skywalker and Leia Organa Solo to the dark side of the Force as part of a plan to seize Thrawn's forces for himself. However, as Thrawn's plan entered its final stages, Thrawn ordered that C'baoth be imprisoned in Mount Tantiss, as he had finally realized the threat the insane clone posed to his plans. After taking control of the Imperials left to guard him on Wayland, he was confronted by New Republic forces, including Luke Skywalker and the Force-sensitive smuggler Mara Jade. The two dueled with C'baoth, and Luke dueled with the clone C'baoth had requested to Captain Pellaeon. C'baoth, when he seemed to have lost, unleashed a Force scream, stunning everyone in the room. He began to bring the ceiling down on Mara Jade in excessive rage. However, Mara used Leia's lightsaber to cut holes in the floor so the rocks fell through, leaving her a clean path to C'baoth. After C'baoth demanded that she follow him to the cloning room, Jade refused and charged, stabbing and ultimately killing him. C'baoth's body blew up in a blast of dark side energy. thumb|left|165px|Joruus C'baoth after his Force powers are repelled by Ysalamir. It was believed that a tissue sample was extracted from the Jedi Master Jorus C'baoth shortly before he departed to the Unknown Regions and beyond aboard the Outbound Flight'Outbound Flight in 27 BBY.The Essential Reader's Companion Kinman Doriana, Supreme Chancellor Palpatine's advisor, extracted from all members of the Outbound Flight crew&mdash;including Jedi&mdash; tissue samples and blood, justifying it with the potential viruses or potential epidemics that could occur while they traveled through space. A short time after the extraction, C'baoth and his companions departed onboard Outbound Flight; however, the vessel was destroyed before it could complete its mission at the hands of a Chiss officer&mdash;Force Commander Mitth'raw'nuruodo, core name "Thrawn," of the Chiss Expansionary Fleet. During the Clone Wars, Palpatine, using Doriana, obtained several thousand Spaarti cloning cylinders from Cartao. These were used to create a clone made from C'baoth's tissue sample.The New Essential Chronology This method, used to grow clones quickly, often produced mentally unstable clones, and Joruus was no exception. At one point in time, Emperor Palpatine dispatched a Guardian to the planet of Wayland to guard his hidden storehouses and goods in Mount Tantiss, This entry established definitively that C'baoth and the guardian were separate entities. which contained treasures such as stolen art, a cloning facility, and a prototype of a cloaking device.Star Wars Encyclopedia After the Battle of Endor and Palpatine's death, the Guardian was abandoned and grew bored over the next five years.The Thrawn Trilogy Sourcebook In 9 ABY,The New Essential Chronology places the Battle of Endor in 4 ABY and The Thrawn Trilogy Sourcebook states that the Guardian established his kingdom five years after this. he left the mountain to lead the Human, Myneyrsh, Psadan native populations into one settlement under his authoritarian rule. Afterwards, Joruus C'baoth arrived on the planet and challenged the Guardian to a duel. C'baoth killed the Guardian and took his place, using the Force to keep the Wayland population under his rule. At some point before or after his duel with the Guardian, C'baoth received orders from the reborn Emperor Palpatine, the same orders given to all Palpatine's Dark Jedi. C'baoth was ordered to keep a low profile and await the Emperor's return. However, he violated or forgot these orders due to clone madness, and, much like Thrawn, he would serve as a distraction to shield the Emperor's growing strength.Dark Empire Sourcebook thumb|right|250px|C'Baoth's attack on Thrawn is repelled by Ysalamiri. Later in 9 ABY, Grand Admiral Thrawn finally tracked down the location of the Emperor's private storehouse on Wayland, intending to use the cloaking shield and the Spaarti cylinders there to pursue his war against the New Republic. However, he also believed that Palpatine had a Dark Jedi Guardian there, and was aware that such a being would be very useful to his campaign; he knew that a powerful Force-sensitive could use battle meditation to increase the efficiency of his forces. Once the Imperials were in orbit of the planet, Thrawn; his second-in-command, Gilad Pellaeon; and the Admiral's Noghri bodyguard, Rukh, arrived on the surface and made their way to a village near Mount Tantiss. They were met by an old man&mdash;actually Joruus C'baoth&mdash;who stated he would take the visiting Imperials to the Guardian. He led them to a crypt in the great palace where he claimed the body of the previous Guardian lay, and then unleashed a deadly blast of Force lightning in an attempt to kill them as he had so many others before. Only the Grand Admiral's precautionary use of ysalamiri&mdash;creatures capable of creating bubbles that could "push back" the Force&mdash; saved him from death. C'baoth, stunned that he had failed to kill them, revealed his identity to them. Thrawn managed to enlist the insane Dark Jedi into an uneasy alliance with him by promising C'baoth the Jedi Knight Luke Skywalker and his sister, Leia Organa Solo, as well as her yet-unborn twins, to be his to mold however he desired in exchange for the Dark Jedi's aid. C'baoth planned to create an army of Dark Jedi, which he would use to conquer the galaxy with. Skywalker, his sister, and the Solo children would be the first of his Jedi. Pellaeon was uneasy about this arrangement, but Thrawn regarded C'baoth as little threat due to his insanity hindering his long-term control. C'baoth served Thrawn in several battles, increasing the efficiency of the Imperial forces by roughly 40%. He also achieved one of his main goals, the capture of Luke Skywalker, when the Jedi came to him on Jomark. At the First Battle of Nomad City earlier in the campaign, C'baoth had felt Skywalker's presence, and sent a message to the Jedi: Skywalker would come to him. At the same time, Imperial forces began spreading the rumor that a Jedi was on Jomark. C'baoth headed there and took up residence in the High Castle, immediately establishing his dominance over the people there. Though Skywalker was skeptical that a Jedi had not only survived the Great Jedi Purge, but not aided the Rebel Alliance, or even revealed himself after Palpatine's death, he eventually went to Jomark. There, he met C'baoth, who proclaimed himself to be a Jedi Master. He began training Skywalker, teaching him many things contrary to what Yoda, Skywalker's former teacher, had taught the young Jedi. C'baoth taught Skywalker that Jedi were superior to others, and should use their power to govern inferiors, though the insane clone did also feel that stopping murders was important. He also taught him that Jedi should use force and pain as teachers to keep non Force-sensitives under control. All this went against what the Jedi had taught for millennia prior to the fall of the Jedi Order. Skywalker recognized that C'baoth was insane and also a practitioner of the dark side of the Force, and attempted to cure him and turn him back to the light. However, he found that C'baoth's madness was too great a hurdle to overcome.The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia thumb|left|180px|Joruus C'baoth, Dark Jedi After a time, C'baoth revealed to Skywalker that he had sensed another being skilled in the Force, someone whom Skywalker had met: the smuggler and former Emperor's Hand, Mara Jade. C'baoth believed that she, like Skywalker, would become his apprentice&mdash;he had foreseen her kneeling before him in a vision. Several days later, Jade landed on Jomark, begging for Skywalker's help to free her boss Talon Karrde, who had been imprisoned by the Empire. C'baoth attempted to kill her by hurling boulders at her starship through the Force, but she managed to land nonetheless. The Dark Jedi confronted her, but the use of an ysalamir, as well as help from R2-D2, Skywalker's astromech droid, saved Jade's life. C'baoth was wounded when R2, in Skywalker's X-wing, fired on him, though the droid did not kill him on orders from Skywalker. Agreeing to her terms, Skywalker departed with Jade. C'baoth later left Jomark in a fury, taking control of the minds of those aboard a Lancer-class frigate and ordering them to take him to the Imperial II-class Star Destroyer Chimaera, Thrawn's flagship. Once there, he confronted Thrawn, asking why he had not yet been given "his" Jedi. Thrawn retorted by asking why Skywalker had been allowed to leave. The Dark Jedi began to believe himself to be the head of the Empire, a belief Thrawn knew had to be changed soon. Thrawn then promised the Dark Jedi that he would soon have Leia Organa Solo and her newborn children, Jacen and Jaina, as he was already assembling a team to infiltrate the Imperial Palace and kidnap them. C'baoth relented, but was still unhappy. Later, he used his Force powers to control the mind of Gilad Pellaeon, and had him place an order for a special clone, then ordered him to forget the incident. Though Thrawn was losing his patience for C'baoth's antics, he still relied on him, knowing his battle meditation ability was indispensable. The Dark Jedi was later used at the assault on Ukio, one of the most important battles of the Thrawn campaign. Several Imperial cruisers, invisible thanks to a cloaking device, sneaked under the planetary shield, and then prepared to fire, while a group of Star Destroyers waited outside the shield. Aboard one of them was C'baoth. When Thrawn gave the order, C'baoth sent a mental command to the other ships under the shield, at which point they fired down on the planet. As the people on the surface could not see the ships that were actually firing, they believed Thrawn had developed a weapon fitted on a Star Destroyer that could penetrate planetary shields, prompting a quick surrender. Rumor of this weapon swept throughout the galaxy, striking fear into the hearts of many loyal to the New Republic. C'baoth later learned that Thrawn's team had failed to capture Organa Solo and her children. Tired of what he perceived as empty promises from Thrawn, he took control of the minds of everyone aboard the Chimaera save for those in the ysalamir Force-bubbles, and threatened to make them take the ship to Coruscant. However, powerful as he was, controlling the minds of thousands of individuals for several days was beyond him, and he was forced to drop his control. Unknown to any of the Imperials, however, was the fact that Mara Jade, upon learning of Thrawn's clone soldiers, revealed that he was likely using the facility on Wayland. She agreed to lead Skywalker, Han Solo, Lando Calrissian, and Chewbacca there. Around this time, C'baoth's madness became even more evident, as he frequently exploded in anger at Thrawn, often about "his" Jedi, but he would quickly calm down. thumb|right|200px|C'baoth's Force scream causes the ceiling to collapse. Unknown to any of the five heading to Wayland, C'baoth was in Mount Tantiss, imprisoned in the royal chambers by Thrawn due to his realization that the clone was too powerful, power-hungry, and unstable to be safely used any longer. However, C'baoth had outsmarted Thrawn. He had realized that if he could take over the minds of the soldiers and crew members used as cloning templates, he could mentally command every clone created from them. This would allow him to personally command a huge section of the Imperial forces. As there were only approximately twenty templates, he believed he could easily shape their minds, and in turn, their clones. He had first tried this mind control technique on the way to Wayland, where he was in a shuttle along with the Imperial General Freja Covell. C'baoth took control of his mind, altering it. Covell became completely loyal to C'baoth, forgetting his earlier orders from Thrawn. However, when the shuttle entered the Force-free zone caused by the thousands of ysalamiri in the mountain, Covell was shaken by the loss of C'baoth's presence, and his mind was severely damaged. Without the Force, the Dark Jedi was unable to maintain control of Covell, and the General suffered, his brain critically damaged. Covell was changed, although C'baoth had not finished "shaping" his mind. Having realized how to shape other's minds now, C'baoth ordered Covell to, in turn, order his troops to place explosives on the thousands of ysalamir in the fortress, and then incite the beings on Wayland to attack the base outside. Covell died a short while later, after having C'baoth placed in charge of the facility. Grand Admiral Thrawn later found out about this by contacting C'baoth. When Jade and Skywalker arrived in the throne room searching for a self-destruct switch, C'baoth revealed himself to them. He attempted to turn them to the dark side, but when they refused, he activated the remote switch that triggered the explosives. When they were detonated, the ysalamiri were killed, restoring the presence of the Force to the mountain. He then showed them his secret weapon&mdash;the clone he had ordered Pellaeon to have made weeks ago. It was a clone of Luke Skywalker, created from tissue from Skywalker's right hand, which had been cut off by Darth Vader during the Duel on Cloud City, and later recovered by Imperial forces. The clone, Luuke Skywalker, was armed with Skywalker's old lightsaber, which had also been recovered on Cloud City. Skywalker and Jade dueled C'baoth's puppet, with Mara Jade eventually killing him. thumb|left|225px|Mara Jade stabs C'baoth, killing him. At this time, Leia Organa Solo, Han Solo, and Talon Karrde entered the throne room. C'baoth unleashed a Force scream, stunning everyone in the room. In a rage, he began to bring the ceiling down on Mara Jade. However, Jade used Leia's lightsaber to cut holes in the floor so that the rocks fell through, leaving her a clear path to C'baoth. C'baoth demanded Jade follow him to the cloning room, where he would make a clone of her. Mara Jade defiantly refused and charged towards C'baoth, guided mentally by Organa Solo, and aided with a distraction by Luke sending Karrde's pet Vornskr's to attack him. When she reached the insane Jedi, she stabbed him with the lightsaber. He exploded in a blast of dark side energy. In the cloning chambers, Lando Calrissian and Chewbacca set detonators to destroy the mountain after the victorious Rebels fled. After freeing Wayland from C'baoth's control, the New Republic began to investigate the history of Wayland. Conversing with the Myneyrsh and Psadan populations, the researchers heard tales of C'baoth's overtaking the original Guardian. These accounts could not be independently verified and were doubted by the historical community to the point of being considered myths, however. An alternate theory held that C'baoth and the Guardian were actually the same man. Ten years after C'baoth's death, his memory still induced fear in those who had witnessed his madness. During the Caamas Document Crisis, while debating whether the "Grand Admiral Thrawn" who had confronted Lando Calrissian aboard the Star Destroyer Relentless might have been a clone of the original Thrawn, Shada D'ukal darkly suggested to Talon Karrde that if the Imperial Remnant had managed to grow one clone of Thrawn, it could just as easily have grown fifty, or even a hundred clones of C'baoth.Specter of the Past C'baoth's use of Battle Mediation disturbed Luke Skywalker, such that the son of Anakin was suspicious of the ability for almost two decades afterwards.The New Jedi Order: Enemy Lines I: Rebel Dream thumb|right|200px|Joruus C'baoth unleashes his force lightning. Joruus C'baoth had many traits of the original Jorus C'baoth. Like the Jedi Master, the clone was very arrogant, believing that being a Jedi automatically granted one superiority over others. He thought that his Force-sensitivity gave him the right to rule others and judge them, and that non-Force sensitives were weak and incapable of independent thought. C'baoth was also overconfident, believing he was capable of performing almost any task through the power of the Force. However, he was also insane, caused by the unstable process of cloning using Spaarti cylinders. His madness showed towards the end of the Thrawn campaign, when he shifted personalities quickly, going from being furious at Thrawn to quiet and apologetic. He was very stubborn, but Thrawn was able to convince him of many things through reasoning and promises that soon things would go C'baoth's way. C'baoth had a very firm belief that Thrawn was mistaken in his definition of power, believing that power was not ruling worlds, but rather individual people, and knowing those people, knowing you had control over them. Moreover, he felt that only he had the right to punish the people he controlled even if they gave offense or violence to another. In the last weeks of his life, he changed his mind, declaring himself the de jure ruler of the Empire but "allowing" (being unable to take away) Thrawn to retain practical leadership. He "permitted" others to say they really served Thrawn and found the whole situation rather funny. The copy of a Jedi felt that it was his total right to direct fleets to capture the Jedi who he wanted to turn into his minions. His clone madness meant that when talking about Leia, C'baoth would become very calm, placidly arguing that she wanted to let him train her children and honestly thought that she would be murdered by the New Republic for her powers. C'baoth's strong personality led him to ignore Thrawn's orders, something Gilad Pellaeon feared when they first met him on Wayland. Thrawn was confident he could control C'baoth with the ysalamiri and carefully calculated orders until he no longer needed him. However, Thrawn underestimated C'baoth, who later rebelled against him, attempting to take control for himself. He suffered from severe memory issues and often would forget important information, the events of battle, his own background and nature, and even what he was doing. At one point he even interpreted the killing of the Guardian of Tantis as an act of defiance against the Sith as a post-Order 66 Jedi. He hated Ysalamiri being used to keep him from using the Force wherever he wished and despised how, in his opinion, the Imperials who made him fight for them often insulted him, mocking him into going deeper and more intensely into straining himself to do wonderous feats of power, but still did not respect him as an all-wise lord. As such, when the ship he was on was hit, he mind-controlled the crew to strike back, even though he was ordered to focus on the wider battle. Though he hurt himself doing this hard feat, he also found it very enjoyable. He sometimes used the Force for trivial tasks, like getting dressed more quickly, though he found it very hard to focus enough to think long-term or to use the Force for complex tasks. C'baoth's mood swings, interruptions, and random changes of topic in his first meeting with Luke, as well as his abrasive style and lack of Yoda-like dignity, put the young Skywalker ill-at ease. Despite his cold and proud style, he did accept that death of old age was natural an assurance for him and agreed with Luke that murders should be stopped by Jedi. While he was insane, the clone did at times have flickers of a desire to improve the lives and harken back to the glory and justice of the Republic, but in his view even this had to be through the lens Jedi being dominating over the "primitives" that he saw all those who could not use the Force to be. His "memories" of the fall of the Jedi in particular soured him towards the rest of the galaxy, assuming that everyone not a Jedi hated them. Moreover, C'baoth would preach against the dark side, oblivious to his own corruption. His ideology, Luke felt, was contradictory in saying the Jedi were both hated and also the teachers of the galaxy. When Luke was taken, C'baoth became even more power-hungry, proclaiming himself an equal to Thrawn in authority and unilaterally saying that he was going to be taking command of Mount Tantiss in order to assure that he was given what he wanted. Additionally, he wanted to restore the "rule" of the "Jedi" with himself as the galactic ruler. When guiding ships to war, C'baoth sometimes had braziers of incense burning near himself. He often smoothed out his beard when thinking and would tinker with a medallion of unknown origin. Given that the Great Jedi Purge had destroyed most records relating to the Jedi and the planet Wayland itself was a carefully hidden secret, few knew that Joruus C'baoth was a clone. In fact, Thrawn was only aware of this fact because he had been present at the destruction of Outbound Flight and the death of the real Jorus C'baoth. The irony of this concealed fact is that through years of isolation and deteriorating sanity, even Joruus C'baoth forgot his true origins and believed himself to be the original Jorus C'baoth. thumb|left|170px|C'baoth was very skilled with Force lightning. Like Jorus C'baoth, the clone was very strong in the Force, capable of using many Force powers; he was, in Luke Skywalker's opinion, just as dangerous as Darth Vader. Skywalker also viewed him as much stronger than he had been during the time of the Rebellion. The dark Jedi assumed if both he and Skywalker joined forces they could archive great things. The clone killed many people who came to his planet Wayland during his reign. On his homeworld, he used his powers to set himself up as a king, the terrified subjects he held worshiped as almost a deity or demon.Heir to the Empire Sourcebook C'baoth was powerful enough to kill his predecessor, which was the last time he had to bother severely exerting himself until he was called up to guide the Empire's fleets, though directly controlling the minds of soldiers as puppets was even harder. He also argued that he could destroy a woman in a Ysalamir bubble and that maybe he was more wise than Darth Sidious. Still, he was unwilling to risk a fight without provocation against Mara Jade while she was protected and when surprised by R2-D2, the dark Jedi was knocked unconscious by an X-wing shooting him. In the wake of Jade extracting Luke from him, C'baoth told Thrawn that he had become stronger in the Force than he had been before their meeting and that the Force was his servant. C'boath was skilled in the art of battle meditation and used it to command Thrawn's forces and coordinate attacks, this being the power that the Grand Admiral sought him out for. Regarding his battle meditation that he used to guide fleets from across the stars, he could augment Thrawn's forces by roughly 40% effectiveness in one instance. In this particular instance the Jedi Master was guiding three fleets (including one hitting Bpfassh), the one he was with and two others that were around four light-years away. The clone admitted that he could not find out exactly what the New Republic units facing his allies were, but he was able to know enough from the Imperials' minds that they were not endangered. Doing this war coordination sometimes caused him to float.Heir to the Empire 2 Two months after he joined Thrawn, he had developed his self-mastery and could use battle meditation to direct ships and locate them almost without issues, though focusing on the very exact location of ships did strain him. During the subjugation of Ukio, C'baoth was able to flawlessly order crews on a Star Destroyer and on cloaked ships to fire in perfect sync, creating the illusion that the Star Destroyer was firing through the shields, and later executed a similar stunt at Woostri. Captain Pellaeon wondered if he was able to execute such pinpoint timing because many of the crew were clones and C'baoth himself was also one. The clone threw his full focus and directed the fleet at Filve to abandon the battle and rush after Leia Organa Solo. The power of his battle meditation was something that Organa Solo herself sensed, so she knew that something was going on beyond mere physical warfare, though she tried to ignore that fact. C'baoth was able to use Force lightning, which he shot several bolts of to try and kill Thrawn and his followers when they first met (the attack failed due to the Ysalamir the Imperial party carried) and frequently utilized it to punish those whom he felt had disobeyed him, such as the people he ruled on Jomark (to stop attempted murder and teach the would-be shooter a lesson) and Wayland. When Mara Jade came to collect Skywalker, the insane clone shot lightning at both Jedi and smuggler, though they used a lightsaber and the Force void from the Ysalamir to resist. He also could emit twisting white lightning from his hands in multiple directions, including behind himself. The dark Jedi was no stranger to telekinesis, such as tearing a rock to parry a blaster bolt aimed at one of his minions, when Rukh tried to execute the man. On Jomark, he used the Force to pull his robe to himself. When Mara Jade flew down to extract Luke, the clone telekinetically flung four small stones that battered her Skipray into a gliding-crash. Jade assumed that he could have destroyed the ship with more mind-flung rocks if he had been less lazy. He disarmed Jade by throwing a rock at her gun-hand using the momentum of the stone to overcome the Force void, then began to fling more stones at Luke and Mara. He turned a comms system off with a handwave, once. The dark clone of a Jedi Master could do things like choking out his foes. In fits of rage, he also had the ability to use Force screams, a sonic attack that could crumble structures. However, the C'baoth clone's preferred ability was that of bending the minds of others. By straining himself such that he had headaches after, he was able to take control over gunnery crews and make them shoot at a ship he found offensive. He even willed Luke Skywalker to walk away from him with partial success. The clone made a man freeze in mental trauma at fifteen minutes away from spaceship docking, disastrously forestalling Thrawn's departure for the battle for the Katana fleet, while aboard a Lancer-class starship whose crew he had, Thrawn speculated, mentally twisted to his service. Thrawn suggested that this implied that C'baoth could mind-control people who were light-years away. The clone mentally forced Captain Pellaeon to send an order to Mount Tantiss to create Luuke Skywalker, then took away the officer's memory of the incident. He also had the power to take total control of other's minds, and literally reshape them in his own image, an extremely difficult feat. When he did this to General Covell, the Imperial died without the connection after they entered the Force null zone of Ysalamir on Wayland. Just before his return back to his homeworld, he once took total domination over the minds of the thirty-seven thousand beings serving on the Chimaera. Later, he used his abilities to control the Imperials left at Mount Tantiss to guard him. C'baoth could look into the future slightly for battle information and to be aware of dangers. Moreover, he foresaw a range of possible endings for the campaign he fought in. During his first meeting with Thrawn, he saw in some smoke rising from a brazier a vision of Luke Skywalker and Leia Organa Solo, standing back-to-back with lightsabers drawn.Heir to the Empire 1 However, he admitted that he could not foresee all, such as when he objected to having to help Thrawn's fleets often with his Battle Meditation on the grounds that Skywalker might show up on Jomark when he was not there. He also knew when Luke was coming to meet him when the young Jedi dropped out hyperspace over Jomark. He also could block out his own feelings from Skywalker's effort to read his mind, such that the young Jedi was completely unable to get a sense of his thoughts. C'baoth in turn, however, imposed tiredness upon Skywalker's body and mind, keeping him as tired as he had been after being tortured by Sidious, unable to focus or think as he should have been able to and so vulnerable to the dark Jedi's teachings and manipulative behavior. He could also impose sleepiness on a target flying low over the town he was in. Another power he claimed to use, that he alleged to be a mark of his worthiness, was leaning on the Force for guidance. C'baoth also was able to look far into the sky when he felt that Mara Jade was flying to where he was keeping Skywalker, whereupon he tried to make her go to sleep. Some of C'baoth's other aspects of the might of his mind included the power to sense the world around him, such as how on Jomark he felt the flicker of the Force that was an Imperial Star Destroyer in orbit,Dark Force Rising 1 then later awoke from sleep to perceive something and sending his mind questing down a mountain to detect a messenger then later empathically feeling and approving of the man's servile mental state, and also twice felt when a murder was about to happen, when he sensed the life story and level of power of Mara Jade (including whenever she disconnected and reconnected with her Force powers) and this was sometimes seen during his Jedi meditations, enhance his memory recall, detect life near him and even who it was, pick up others' thoughts--like how Luke Skywalker wondered (and indeed it was so) if the fallen clone Jedi Master was reading his mind during their first meeting on Jomark and when he read Mara Jade's mind when she was flying her ship towards him on Jomark, and Thrawn speculated maybe stole knowledge from a man from across a fifteen minute ship flight gap, much like how he took of Pellaeon elements of the Captain's thoughts--and would telepathically send his own to others such as when he summoned Luke from across the stars, such as he did at the Battle of Nkllon. Thrawn noted that after Luke Skywalker escaped the clone, C'baoth showed that he could send telepathic messages to non-Force-sensitives from light years away. C'Baoth casually harassed Pellaeon with his mind, encouraging him to rush to talk to him and again using Force empathy to know the Captain's personal feelings. The Jedi Master read the minds of his supposed minions with casual ease and stole their memories, but doing this did take an active effort and he could not read minds while distracted. By locking onto the minds of men, C'baoth could pick out cloaked spaceships in the same starsystem. Moments after the battle of Ukio, the Jedi clone felt that Leia Organa Solo was at Filve. C'baoth had some considerably powerful Force barriers at his disposal. When he had been shot from behind by Luke Skywalker's X-wing, he managed (though being knocked out by the shockwave) to protect himself and survive without any singes on his person, a feat that impressed Mara Jade. During his final battle on Wayland, he conjured up a shield for protection from the debris he had caused to fall only moments earlier in his dueling sanctum.The Last Command 6 This bubble of defense kept him clean of wound or rubble from his fit of fury. He also was able to use the Force to absorb energy. The Dark Jedi was able use the Force to project his voice, but once Skywalker was not certain if that was just a trick of the room's architecture. Later, on the Chimera's bridge, the insane clone indeed applied the Force in this manner. At one point his eyes glowed as with flames. This phenomenon occurred again just before the battle of Ukio and again his eyes burned in anger while demanding that Thrawn attack the New Republic so as to capture/"save" Leia, in conjunction with more Force-augmented yelling. The dark Jedi also, while demanding that there be an assault on Coruscant, evoked blue light behind himself.The Last Command 1 C'baoth had a range of powers at his disposal to dull pain or injuries and heal faster, improve his senses and his body's capabilities, endure being stunned and remove poisons in himself, go into trances to hibernate, augment his skills as a swordsman, and empty his mind for better meditation. He was also a good archer. }} thumb|right|Concept art for Joruus C'baoth. The character of Joruus C'baoth was created for the 1991 novel Heir to the Empire, the first book in the Thrawn Trilogy. According to author Timothy Zahn, Joruus C'baoth was originally supposed to be a mad clone of Obi-Wan Kenobi that survived the Clone Wars, but Zahn was forced to change the character's origin when Lucasfilm objected. He then created a new character&mdash;Jorus C'baoth&mdash;and his clone. Jorus C'baoth's background, along with that of the Outbound Flight project, was later expanded on in the 2004 novel Survivor's Quest and the 2006 novel Outbound Flight, both also written by Zahn.Survivor's Quest In sources expanding upon Wayland's history, doubt was cast in-universe on whether or not Joruus C'baoth actually killed any Guardian. The alternative theory posited by those sources was that the two were one and the same. This ambiguity persisted in materials released long after the original novels, appearing in C'baoth's Databank entry. It was not until 2008 and the release of The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia that it was objectively established that the Mount Tantiss settlement had been controlled by two, separate regimes. Because of this long-maintained uncertainty, it was not unreasonable to believe C'baoth when he told Thrawn that he had ruled Wayland for some time, but The Thrawn Trilogy Sourcebook (1996) established that it took five years without Imperial contact for the original Guardian&mdash;written as C'baoth being the same man&mdash;to leave Mount Tantiss. This placed that event in the same year, 9 ABY, as the Thrawn campaign documented by the Thrawn Trilogy, meaning that C'baoth's term as leader after killing the original was actually quite short. *Heir to the Empire *Heir to the Empire 2 *Heir to the Empire 4 *Dark Force Rising *Dark Force Rising 2 *Dark Force Rising 3 *Dark Force Rising 4 *The Last Command *The Last Command 5 *The Last Command 6 *X-Wing: Isard's Revenge *Jedi Search *Dark Apprentice *Darksaber *Planet of Twilight *Ambush at Corellia *Specter of the Past *Vision of the Future *Survivor's Quest *Chewbacca (2000) 4 *The New Jedi Order: Enemy Lines I: Rebel Dream *The New Jedi Order: Destiny's Way }} *Heir to the Empire Sourcebook *Dark Force Rising Sourcebook *Dark Empire Sourcebook *A Guide to the Star Wars Universe, Second Edition, Revised and Expanded *The Last Command Sourcebook *The Essential Guide to Characters *Star Wars Gamemaster Screen, Revised *The Essential Guide to Vehicles and Vessels *The Thrawn Trilogy Sourcebook *The Jedi Academy Sourcebook *Live-Action Adventures *Star Wars: The Roleplaying Game, Second Edition, Revised and Expanded *Diplomatic Corps Entrance Exam *The Essential Guide to Weapons and Technology *Star Wars Encyclopedia *The Essential Guide to Planets and Moons *A Guide to the Star Wars Universe, Third Edition, Revised and Expanded *Star Wars Roleplaying Game Core Rulebook *The Essential Guide to Alien Species *The New Jedi Order Sourcebook *The New Essential Guide to Characters *The Official Star Wars Fact File 107 *Star Wars: The Ultimate Visual Guide *Star Wars: The Comics Companion *Jedi vs. Sith: The Essential Guide to the Force *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia *Star Wars: The Official Starships & Vehicles Collection 8 *The Essential Guide to Warfare *Star Wars: The Ultimate Visual Guide: Updated and Expanded *The Essential Reader's Companion }} Category:Dark Jedi Category:Force-sensitive clones Category:Human clones Category:Individuals with he/him pronouns Category:Males Category:Thrawn's fleet personnel Category:Wayland residents