4629
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Ajunta_Pall
Ajunta Pall
15182

Ajunta Pall was a male Human Jedi Master and the leader of the Dark Jedi who were exiled from the Jedi Order and the Galactic Republic following the Hundred-Year Darkness. Upon his arrival on Korriban, he became the first Dark Lord of the Sith. He was regarded as the manifestation of Typhojem, the Left-Handed God by the Kissai. Long after his death, his spirit was redeemed by the Jedi Knight Revan during the Jedi Civil War. thumb|left|150px|Escorted by [[XoXaan, Sorzus Syn, and Remulus Dreypa, Pall arrives on Korriban.]] A Force-sensitive Human, Ajunta Pall was a member of the Jedi Order following the First Great Schism. Undergoing training in the ways of the Force, Pall first attained the rank of Jedi Knight, then attained the rank of Jedi Master and began studying the ways of alchemy. Eventually through his studies, Master Pall discovered the secret of creating and shaping life; fearful of this power, the Order deemed it an abomination of the Force and sought to erase all practice of it. The Jedi High Council barred the teachings of Pall and his followers, deeming him a pawn of the dark side of the Force. Angered by what they deemed Jedi arrogance, Master Pall and his followers declared war on the Jedi Order, beginning a century-long conflict that would be known to history as the Hundred-Year Darkness. Obtaining significant power, the now High General Pall slew more than a dozen Jedi during the final battle of the war on Corbos, but despite this, he and his fellow Dark Jedi were still defeated. Captured by his former Jedi comrades, Master Pall and his followers were stripped of their ranks and their weapons, and exiled from space controlled by the Galactic Republic.Jedi vs. Sith: The Essential Guide to the Force thumb|right|200px|Ajunta Pall, exiled on Ziost Traveling from one planet to the other in search of a habitable world, the Exiles eventually discovered Korriban on the Outer Rim. Venturing out into the wastes of the desert planet, the Exiles were intrigued upon discovering the world was home to a Force-sensitive species, known as the Sith, who, while relatively primitive when compared to the Dark Jedi, were quite creative in their knowledge of the Force. The Sith, under their King Hakagram Graush, initially resisted the Dark Jedi's attempt to obtain their knowledge and subjugate them; however, Pall managed to recruit the King's Shadow Hand to their side, with the result that Graush was betrayed to the Dark Jedi, and Pall personally executed Graush with his own sword. Afterwards, the Sith species, in awe of Pall and his followers' ships and technology, as well as their skills in manipulating the Force, quickly came to worship the visitors to their planet, hailing them as their gods,Knights of the Old Republic Campaign Guide Pall himself believed to be the manifestation of the Left-Handed God Typhojem by their Kissai priest caste. Pall and his followers then subjugated the natives, and his new Sith subjects revered him as their "Jen'ari," meaning "Dark Lord," a position coveted by fellow Exile Sorzus Syn. However, Pall was too cautious to claim the title of Sith'ari, a prophesied overlord of the Sith.Book of Sith: Secrets from the Dark Side As the first Dark Lord of the Sith, Ajunta Pall founded the first Sith Empire and expanded it onto other worlds. Pall had a citadel built for himself to rule from on the planet Ziost. Pall eventually died after serving the Empire for many decades, but his Empire lived on. His body was returned to Korriban, where it was placed in a massive tomb in what would come to be called the Valley of the Dark Lords. After his physical death, Ajunta Pall's spirit persisted within his tomb, having attached his soul to the physical world through his extensive knowledge of alchemy. Over the centuries, he began to question his actions as a Sith Lord and the downfall the Lords experienced at each other's hand. According to legend, the Jedi Council took possession of Ajunta Pall's lightsaber after his death and stored it inside the Great Jedi Library.Star Wars: Force and Destiny Core Rulebook 200px|thumb|left|Ajunta Pall's spirit after his physical death Millennia after his death, during the Jedi Civil War, Jedi Knight Revan entered Ajunta Pall's tomb to retrieve the Sith Lord's sword so that he could gain prestige from the nearby Sith academy, which he hoped would ultimately lead to his accessing a Star Map containing partial coordinates of the Star Forge. Ajunta Pall appeared as a spirit and told Revan of his actions as a Sith, with disappointment and shame, telling him of how the Jedi were not what drove the Sith to destruction after the Hundred-Year Darkness. Pall explained how the Sith themselves battled each other and led their Order close to death and that he felt nothing but remorse. Revan removed the Dark Lord's blade and convinced Pall to turn away from the dark side and return to the light. After Revan took the blade, Pall advised him not to keep it, saying it was the blade that killed him. Letting go of his pain and anguish, Pall returned to the light and became one with the Force, finding peace at last. Revan then gave the sword to Master Uthar Wynn at the academy, obtaining the prestige necessary to reach the Star Map. Before his spirit was finished, Pall hinted at a secret source of Sith power. He was unable to reconcile conflicted images of whether Revan had discovered this source of power, or would soon do so. thumb|right|130px|A possible statue of Ajunta Pall Ajunta Pall's tomb is one of the side quests available in the Korriban segment of the video game Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic. In the game, he recognizes the player character's true identity. The main character can either help him become one with the Force (for "light-side points"), fight him and destroy his spirit (for "dark-side points"), or fail to take him to the light and let his spirit fade away. The player may also choose to keep the sword instead of giving it to Uthar. In the game Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic, Ajunta Pall's spirit appears as a generic human Dark Jedi with an energy shield activated to simulate transparency. The statue of Ajunta Pall seen in his tomb is identical to one seen in the destroyed Jedi Enclave on Dantooine in Knights of the Old Republic II. Originally, Pall's tomb was supposed to be that of Freedon Nadd, who actually had been buried on Dxun. The error was corrected with the introduction of Pall into the scenario; however, it is still present in the game files as Pall is referred to as Nadd in the dialogue *.dlg files and character *.utc file. Though Ajunta Pall would have been well over 100 years old by the end of the Hundred-Year Darkness, the artwork of him in Jedi vs. Sith: The Essential Guide to the Force depicted him as looking much younger. *Tales of the Jedi – The Golden Age of the Sith 0 *Tales of the Jedi – The Golden Age of the Sith 2 *Tales of the Jedi – The Golden Age of the Sith 4 *Tales of the Jedi – The Freedon Nadd Uprising 1 *Tales of the Jedi – Dark Lords of the Sith 1 *Tales of the Jedi – Dark Lords of the Sith 2 *Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic *Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic II: The Sith Lords *Star Wars: The Old Republic Cartel Market *Star Wars: The Old Republic *Darth Plagueis *Star Wars: Galaxy of Heroes *Tales of the Jedi Companion *The Essential Chronology *Star Wars: Secrets of the Sith *The Dark Side Sourcebook *The New Essential Guide to Characters *Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic: Prima's Official Strategy Guide *Star Wars: The Ultimate Visual Guide *The New Essential Chronology *Jedi vs. Sith: The Essential Guide to the Force *Knights of the Old Republic Campaign Guide *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia *Jedi Academy Training Manual *The Jedi Path: A Manual for Students of the Force *Star Wars: The Old Republic Explorer's Guide *The Journal of Master Gnost-Dural *Book of Sith: Secrets from the Dark Side *Star Wars: The Old Republic Encyclopedia *Star Wars: Force and Destiny Core Rulebook }} |after=Eventually, Tulak Hord }} Category:Dark Lords of the Sith Category:Exiles Category:Force ghosts Category:Former Sith Category:Humans Category:Individuals with he/him pronouns Category:Males Category:Pre-Ruusan Jedi Masters Category:Redeemed Jedi Category:Sith alchemists Category:Sith Lords of the Sith Empire Category:Sith Masters