4727
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Crion
Crion
7252

Crion was a Human male who was the father of Xanatos and Nason, the grandfather of Granta Omega, and the corrupt governor of the planet Telos IV. Crion was extremely wealthy, being the richest man on the planet. He consented for his son Xanatos to go train as a Jedi on Coruscant at a young age. Over the years, Crion used Telos' resources to create wealth for the planet and quickly ascended to power without help from his advisers or the Senate. Soon, Crion had the power to launch an attack against neighboring systems. However, Crion quickly found himself in a storm of criticism and discontent from his people, which motivated many of them to start an insurrection. He felt his ability to respond was limited while both the insurgents and military existed, so he devised a plan in order to unify Telos IV under his rule. In order to achieve this, he at some point enlisted the help of a failed Jedi called Dairoki to murder High Priestess Liora, who was a beloved figure to both sides of the conflict. At the same time, he called for renegotiations with a nearby planet, Toprawa, but this was a ruse intended to make the Toprawans look like the culprits of the murder themselves. Jedi Master Qui-Gon Jinn and his apprentice Xanatos, along with Master Tahl and masterless padawan Orykan Tamarik came to investigate this matter. Crion asked his son to join him in his plans, and while initially refusing, Xanatos eventually gave in. Xanatos then sabotaged the first meeting to enrage the Telosian population against the Toprawans and Antarian Rangers. All would not go as intended for the falling Padawan, as one of Dairoki's attempts at propaganda led to the main Telosian palace being raided by insurgents, and Crion's own daughter, Nason, would be killed. Sick of Dairoki's flawed plans, Crion demanded the failed Jedi to get off his planet. Unfortunately for Crion, Dairoki once again tried to continue with the original plan and accidentally revealed the conspirancy to one of the governor's top advisors, Hukowl An Devi, not knowing that the Ithorian had been kept in the dark about Crion's plans. This allowed an alarmed Hukowl to then reveal all this information to the people of Telos IV, denouncing Crion as the one true enemy of the planet, leading to the populace rising up against their ruler. A civil war broke out, and many lives were lost in the ensuing conflict. thumb|left|175px|Crion dies before Qui-Gon Jinn can save him. Prior to the descent into civil war, Crion asked Xanatos to join him, having regretted sending his then young son away to the Jedi Temple. Xanatos was initially reluctant and refused, but following the death of his sister, Nason, an anguished Xanatos accepted his father's invitation when asked a second time. Xanatos, whose presence on this mission was a last test before attaining knighthood, subsequently failed this final test as a Jedi. Qui-Gon was requested to leave the planet by the Jedi Order due to the situation getting out of control. While he did plan to follow this order, he was forced to enter Crion's palace to look for Xanatos, only to be immediately attacked by the governor and his royal guard. As Qui-Gon tried to reason with Crion, Padawan Orykian appeared from behind and tried to aid the master, only to be shot in the arm and disarmed. While trying to stop Crion from killing the Padawan, Jinn destroyed his sword with a single swing, accidentally sending the governor backwards onto a flaming charcoal bed. Qui-Gon rushed over in attempt to save him, but it was too late. Xanatos, who had been watching, became enraged and tried to duel his master. Jinn tried to apologize, but Xanatos called him a King's slayer, denounced the Jedi, and embraced his anger, turning to the dark side of the Force. Xanatos picked up his father's burnt ring and pressed it to his right cheek, creating a broken-circle scar which eventually became his trademark and the symbol for the Offworld Mining Corporation. Crion's corpse was later recovered by the insurgents. *Star Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds *Jedi — The Dark Side 1 *Jedi — The Dark Side 2 *Jedi — The Dark Side 3 *Jedi — The Dark Side 4 *Jedi — The Dark Side 5 *Jedi Apprentice: The Dark Rival *Jedi Apprentice: The Captive Temple *Jedi Apprentice: The Day of Reckoning *The Life and Legend of Obi-Wan Kenobi *Star Wars Roleplaying Game Core Rulebook *The New Essential Chronology *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia *Jedi Academy Training Manual Category:Galactic Republic governors Category:Humans Category:Males Category:Planetary leaders Category:Telosians