4921
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Kylantha
Kylantha
20391

|gender=Female |pronouns=new |height= |mass= |hair=Blonde |feathers= |eyes=Blue |skin=Light |cyber= |families=new |parents=new |partners=new |siblings=new |children=new |affiliation=*Royal House of Naboo *Galactic Empire |masters= |apprentices= }} Kylantha was a Human female from Naboo. She was elected Monarch of Naboo after her predecessor, Queen Apailana, was killed on the orders of the Galactic Empire for treason shortly after the Declaration of a New Order. Formally styled Her Highness, Queen Kylantha, she was installed as a puppet monarch by the Empire and ruled during most of the Imperial Era. Nevertheless, she never became a blind servant of the Galactic Empire and showed sympathy to the Rebel Alliance during the Galactic Civil War. Kylantha was elected Queen of Naboo during the Imperial era. She succeeded Queen ApailanaStar Wars Character Encyclopedia in 18 BBY, after the latter was executed by the Galactic Empire for harboring Jedi survivors of Order 66.Star Wars: Battlefront II Although Kylantha was the democratically-elected head of state of the Naboo system, her action as a monarch was overseen by Imperial supervisors. Hence, her elections restored Naboo's allegiance to the the Empire and Queen Kylantha was soon considered as a puppet monarch. In reality, Kylantha's loyalty to the Empire was much more ambiguous.Star Wars Galaxies: The Ruins of Dantooine After her accession to the throne, Kylantha was supposed to reform the Naboo institutions inherited from the Galactic Republic. However, although the queen was outwardly loyal to the Empire, she refused to dissolve the Naboo Royal Advisory Council and had only implemented a few changes to Naboo's democratic system. Over the years, Queen Kylantha's mistrust towards the Empire continued to grow. Queen Kylantha resided in the Royal Palace located in the Naboo capital city of Theed. Like her predecessors, she was served by handmaidens, including Teckla Minnau, Jaanie and Altah. At some point during her reign, a young and wealthy suitor, in an attempt to win her heart in marriage, purchased a quadrant of the Naboo system. However, Kylantha politely refused his offer, saying that she had "married" her people and wished to serve them with all of her time. Heartbroken, the suitor renamed the quadrant "Kylantha's Whim." }} During the Galactic Civil War between the Galactic Empire and the Rebel Alliance, Queen Kylantha still publicly supported the Empire and was said to be extremely devoted to Emperor Palpatine. Inwardly, she had become a Rebel sympathizer. After the Battle of Yavin, she began to communicate secretly with a Rebel general based on Naboo named Jacen Nire. However, her actions led some Imperials, including Grand Inquisitor Ja'ce Yiaso, High Inquisitor Mal Sikander, and Chief Inquisitor Loam Redge, to be highly suspicious. Following the Battle of Yavin, the queen invited every years the Ewok Chief Chirpa and his tribe to come to Naboo to celebrate the Ewok Festival of Love. In 1 ABY, Mikdanyell Guh'rantt, the mayor of Mos Eisley on Tatooine, contacted Kylantha and several regional governors across the galaxy about the increasing commotion that plagued his city. It turned out that this problem did not concern only Mos Eisley. Kylantha, Guh'rantt, and the others eventually agreed to work together to put an end to that nuisance. Some time after the Battle of Yavin, Queen Kylantha was concerned about slavery occurring on the planet Kashyyyk. She therefore dispatched the Wookiees Orrekazzapirr, Drrlirm, and Imarrra to their homeworld to investigate whether the Imperial force stationed on Kashyyyk was assisting the Trandoshan slavers. In 1 ABY, when she did not receive any news from the Wookiees, Kylantha grew worried. However, a spacer arrived in Theed that Kylantha had heard many stories about from some of her staff but ignored that the spacer was in fact affiliated with the Rebel Alliance. The adventurer agreed to fly to Kashyyyk and investigate the whereabouts of the Wookiees. The Queen had chosen the right being: not only did the adventurer find Drrlirm in the Kashyyykian jungles and escort him to Kachirho, but tracked the other two Wookiees to the Imperial prison on Dathomir where they had been brought. The Rebel operative helped them escape from the planet through the Imperial blockade. As a token of her appreciation for the help, Kylantha presented the adventurer with an old, rehauled ARC-170 starfighter. thumb|Kylantha in her palace during the Galactic Civil War In 1 ABY, a few high-ranking individuals in the Empire, including Emperor Palpatine and Grand Inquisitor Ja'ce Yiaso, were totally certain of the treachery of the queen. Moreover, the Emperor came to believe that Kylantha was directly in contact with the Rebellion. Knowing that trying to force the queen to reveal her treason would not be beneficial for the Empire, Palpatine resorted to alternate means to get rid of the Rebel general. Instead of having her arrested for treason, Palpatine assigned a group of Imperial operatives to help him manipulate the queen without any blame falling on the Empire. First, the Imperial operatives traveled to the Forest Moon of Endor to recruit a group of mercenaries, the Jantsk mercenaries, in the name of the Emperor. The operatives later raided a small Rebel base on Dantooine to steal a Rebel datadisk. An Imperial agent then altered the disk and uploaded new data that implicated the Rebel Alliance in an alleged plot against the queen. Afterwards, the Jantsk mercenaries attacked the Theed Royal Palace, posing as Rebel assassins. Palpatine's agents discreetly assisted the mercenaries in the attack on Kylantha's chambers by ridding the queen of her security guards. Eventually, the "assault" failed when Darth Vader arrived in the palace. The Imperial operatives subsequently went to talk to Queen Kylantha, who was not convinced by Vader of the Rebel Alliance's guilt. As "proof" of this, an operative gave Kylantha the falsified datadisk. The queen claimed to be shocked that the Rebels made a personal attack on her and she revealed the location of the Rebel general to the Imperials. The Imperial operatives eventually proceeded to attack General Jacen Nire's camp, outside the city of Dee'ja Peak, killing the Rebel general in the strike. In addition, the Imperial assaulted the Jantsk mercenary bunker on Endor where they killed the mercenary leader Vurrha Jantsk in order to destroy any proof of the implication of the Empire in the attack of the queen. In the end, Emperor Palpatine's plan proceeded exactly as he had foreseen. Queen Kylantha profoundly apologized for her misgivings and gave her full support to the Emperor. Prior to the Clone Wars, Queen Amidala amended the Naboo constitution to limit the rule of elected monarchs to two four-year terms.Star Wars: Episode II Attack of the Clones novelization However, unlike her predecessors, Queen Kylantha substantially exceeded her two terms of office.According to the sources above-mentioned, Queen Kylantha ruled at least from 18 BBY to 1 ABY. Eventually, Kylantha was replaced by another queen named Mairayni.Star Wars: The Essential Guide to Warfare Author's Cut, Part 6: Showdown at Naboo established that Queen Mairayni was the sixth monarch to reign after King Veruna. Various sources indicated that Queen Kylantha was the fifth (after Amidala, Jamillia, Neeyutnee and Apailana) and consequently the predecessor of Mairayni. }} Kylantha appeared as a non-player character (NPC) in the 2003 video game Star Wars Galaxies, a massively multiplayer online role-playing game developed by Sony Online Entertainment and published by LucasArts, prior to its closure on December 15, 2011. Queen Kylantha was extensively mentioned by other NPCs in the original release of the Star Wars Galaxies, and in its associated strategy guides, but she did not properly appear in the game. Unused game files revealed that the queen was intended to appear as a NPC along with her handmaiden Liane but both were cut from the final game. Kylantha would have proposed three quests to players who had completed all quests given by Liane. Players working for the queen would have been tasked first to retrieve the queen's royal makeup kit, then, to deliver a refusal letter to an invitation sent by Imperial General Dorond and, eventually, to escort Tedric, the trainer of Kylantha's guarlara Roistering Spirit. Queen Kylantha was finally added to the game with the release of the expansion pack Rage of the Wookiees on May 5, 2005. Rebel players could take a quest from her where they had to rescue Wookiee slaves on Dathomir. They received an ARC-170 starfighter as a reward. Later, with the release of the "Chapter 6.12" update, on September 13, 2007, the queen was made a protagonist of the revamped "Imperial Theme Park." According to the now-defunct StarWars.com Databank, Teckla Minnau, a loyal servant of the deceased Queen Amidala, survived the Clone Wars and returned to Naboo, where she eventually served as a handmaiden to Kylantha. However, her fate was changed in 2014 by "An Old Friend," an episode of Star Wars: The Clone Wars, which established that Minnau died during the Clone Wars. *Star Wars Galaxies: The Ruins of Dantooine *Star Wars Galaxies: Jump to Lightspeed *Star Wars Galaxies: Rage of the Wookiees *Star Wars Galaxies: An Empire Divided: Prima's Official Strategy Guide *Star Wars Galaxies: An Empire Divided Quick Reference Guide *Star Wars Galaxies: Jump to Lightspeed: Prima Official Game Guide *Star Wars Galaxies: The Total Experience: Prima Official Game Guide *Star Wars Galaxies: The Complete Guide: Prima Official Game Guide *Star Wars Character Encyclopedia }} Category:Cut content from Star Wars Galaxies Category:Females Category:Humans Category:Monarchs of Naboo Category:Naboo Category:Personnel of the Galactic Empire