5067
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Karka_Kre%27fey
Karka Kre'fey
9912

Karka Kre'fey was a Bothan male who was the grandson of New Republic General Laryn Kre'fey. In 6 ABY, the Kre'fey family reputation was strongly damaged after Laryn Kre'fey's death at the First Battle of Borleias, a devastating loss for the New Republic attributed to the general's errors. Karka Kre'fey adamantly denied the allegations of his grandfather's mistakes, which he felt sullied his family's honor. During a party hosted by the Bothan Liska Dan'kre at a skyhook above the planet Coruscant in 7 ABY, Kre'fey confronted Rogue Squadron pilot Gavin Darklighter over his opinion on his grandfather's mistakes. Kre'fey challenged Darklighter to a duel, which the pilot refused to accept. thumb|right|240px|General Laryn Kre'fey, grandfather of Karka Kre'fey A Bothan male of the Kre'fey family, Karka Kre'fey was part of a long line of Bothan leaders that included his grandfather, New Republic General Laryn Kre'fey&mdash;the Bothans' most celebrated military leader at the timeX-Wing: Wedge's Gamble&mdash;and his brother, eventual Admiral Traest Kre'fey. In 6 ABY,The Essential Reader's Companion dates the events of X-Wing: Rogue Squadron to 6 ABY. Laryn Kre'fey planned and orchestratedX-Wing: Rogue Squadron the first battle of Borleias, a New Republic effort to capture the planet Borleias. The general died in the battle, which proved to be an overwhelming loss for the New Republic forces partly attributed to Laryn's poor planning and decisions, and the Kre'fey family reputation suffered as a result. Kre'fey disbelieved the allegations against his grandfather, which he felt besmirched the general's honor and his family name. In 7 ABY,The Essential Reader's Companion dates the events of X-Wing: The Krytos Trap to 7 ABY. Kre'fey attended a lavish party on a skyhook above the planet Coruscant hosted by the wealthy Bothan Liska Dan'kre, the guests of which were mostly members of the same species. During the party, Kre'fey and two Bothan subordinates approached the human Rogue Squadron pilot Gavin Darklighter, who had been present at Borleias. Confronting Darklighter, Kre'fey introduced himself and asked whether the pilot agreed with the claims about his grandfather's alleged mistakes during the battle. When Darklighter responded affirmatively, Kre'fey slapped him across the left cheek without warning, catching the pilot off-guard and nearly knocking him down. thumb|left|210px|Gavin Darklighter, the Rogue Squadron pilot who refused Karka Kre'fey's duel offer Darklighter told the Bothan he understood being upset over his grandfather's death, but Kre'fey instead accused the pilot of sullying the honor of his grandfather and family. Despite Darklighter's lack of interest in an altercation and an attempted intervention by the diplomat Herrit Gordon, Kre'fey challenged the pilot to a duel. Darklighter, inwardly citing a new sense of discipline he had learned from his squadron and knowing that ignoring Kre'fey's taunts would hurt the Bothan more than physical damage, refused to fight&mdash;which was ultimately fortunate for Kre'fey.Star Wars Encyclopedia The Bothan accused Darklighter of cowardice, but the pilot claimed that Kre'fey was not his enemy; Darklighter noted that Kre'fey honored his grandfather more in continuing his crusade rather than hiding his mistakes. Darklighter offered a handshake to Kre'fey, but the Bothan rejected the gesture and walked away, followed by his subordinates. After Kre'fey had departed, Gordon complimented Darklighter for his handling of the confrontation. When later speaking to Asyr Sei'lar, Bothan Rogue Squadron pilot and Darklighter's lover, the Bothan Councilor Borsk Fey'lya recognized the defusing of the "Kre'fey problem" as an example of Darklighter's ability to handle himself. In 25 ABY,The Essential Reader's Companion dates the events of The New Jedi Order: Dark Tide I: Onslaught to 25 ABY. when speaking with Admiral Traest Kre'fey, Darklighter mentally noted his resemblance to Karka and his grandfather. thumb|right|210px|Kre'fey challenged Darklighter to a duel over his opinion on the battle at Borleias. Karka Kre'fey possessed creamy white fur and golden eyes typical of members of the Kre'fey family, bearing a striking resemblance to both his brother and grandfather. He stood as tall as Gavin Darklighter at 1.8 meters, though did not possess the same bulk as the pilot. Like many Bothans, Karka Kre'fey possessed a strong sense of pride. He felt that the reports of Laryn Kre'fey's failure at Borleias brought shame onto his family, and was so adamant about defending his family's honor that he provoked a confrontation with Darklighter over the matter. Kre'fey was irate when approaching Darklighter and was upset by what he perceived to be the pilot's sullying of his grandfather's honor. The Bothan attacked Darklighter without warning and was determined to challenge him to a duel, believing the pilot to be a coward when he declined to fight. When Darklighter extended his hand to Kre'fey, the Bothan did not take it, instead snarling and departing. Kre'fey wore a black uniform that contrasted with his fur and eyes. Karka Kre'fey first appeared in the 1996 novel X-Wing: The Krytos Trap, written by Michael A. Stackpole. *X-Wing: The Krytos Trap *The New Jedi Order: Dark Tide I: Onslaught *Star Wars Encyclopedia *A Guide to the Star Wars Universe, Third Edition, Revised and Expanded *Star Wars Roleplaying Game Revised Core Rulebook *Ultimate Alien Anthology *Star Wars Roleplaying Game Saga Edition Core Rulebook *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Bothans Category:Individuals with he/him pronouns Category:Males