5121
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Galak_Fyyar
Galak Fyyar
8971

Galak Fyyar was a male Human who was a skilled commander, and a dedicated scientist that served Lord Hethrir's Empire Reborn. He, alongside Desann were tasked with the creation of Shadowtroopers, Force-sensitive soldiers empowered with artusian crystals. He was later killed above Yavin 4. As an ambitious officer, Fyyar rose to the rank of Admiral and had aspirations of galactic conquest, but his dependence on technology and his overconfidence were the keys to his eventual downfall. He also held the title of "Chancellor", though its significance is unclear. During his service in the Empire, Fyyar was famous not for his strategic or leadership skills, but rather for his technological innovations, working closely with Emperor Palpatine. Before the Battle of Endor, Fyyar worked at the Maw Installation, but left to work in secret facilities around the galaxy just prior to the battle. After the death of the Emperor, Fyyar disappeared from the spotlight. He fell in with former Procurator of Justice Hethrir and his Empire Reborn faction. Fyyar became one of Hethrir's top lieutenants. He reappeared in the radars of New Republic around 10 ABY, as he was consolidating Imperial Remnant force in the Outer Rim. He worked closely with Desann, another of Hethrir's lieutenants, to develop methods of infusing non-Force-sensitives with the Force. The pair carried out their experiments on Kejim until the outpost was destroyed by Kyle Katarn. Desann and Fyyar managed to turn this to their advantage, tracking Katarn to the Valley of the Jedi. There, the pair put their research to use. Artusian crystals focused the Valley's power into minimally Force-sensitive recruits, creating the dark Jedi order of Reborn. Fyyar also created a cortosis-based armor, resistant to lightsabers. Fyyar himself had a special powered armor suit equipped with a rocket launcher, a shield generator, and a heavy repeater. Lighter cortosis armor, equipped with a focusing Artusian crystal, was issued to the shadowtroopers, who served as the elite dark side troops of the Empire Reborn. 233x233px|thumb|left|Fyyar in his cortosis battle armor. With the success of their program, Desann and Fyyar initiated an assault on the Jedi Praxeum on Yavin 4. Fyyar's ship, Doomgiver, departed from his headquarters at the secret Cairn Installation and arrived over Yavin 4, where it deployed landing forces. Unknown to Fyyar, Katarn had infiltrated his operations. The New Republic saboteur contacted Rogue Squadron, which attacked the Doomgiver upon its exit from hyperspace. Fyyar, in his battle suit, managed to surprise Katarn as he was in the process of destroying the ship's shield generator. Fyyar was too slow, however, and Katarn took out the generator with a lightsaber throw. Enraged, Fyyar attacked Katarn, but even his shielded cortosis armor proved no match for Katarn, who fought and struck the admiral down with his lightsaber. The suit malfunctioned and exploded, vaporizing Fyyar. Galak Fyyar was voiced by Steven Jay Blum. During combat, Fyyar's shield generator can be disabled by destroying his armor's antenna with weapon fire. There are three ways to defeat Fyyar in his Cortosis armor, after the shield is brought down. The first one is to use force speed and your lightsaber combined to deliver extra fast strikes while his shield is recovering. Since force speed slows down the action and speeds you up, it will take a seemingly long time for his shield to regenerate, and you can deliver strikes much faster. The second way is to pummel him with force lightning. His armor seems to be highly vulnerable to that attack. This is also effective against his shield. The third way is to use saber throw on him. This will only work when the shield is down because if the player tries to hit the shield with saber throw, the saber will just go inside the shield, and the player will lose control of it on entry. The rank plaque on Fyyar's uniform has a different layout than most others. Rather than consisting of two rows (the top row being four red bars and the bottom row being four blue bars), the plaque contains a single row of eight bars, alternating between red and blue bars every two bars. Furthermore, the plaque is conspicuously placed on the right side of the chest instead of the left side. There are another two red and blue bars worn on the collar which are larger than those worn on the chest. In the Multiplayer mode of Star Wars: Jedi Knight: Jedi Academy his name is written as "Galak Fyarr" if he is selected as a bot.Star Wars: Jedi Knight: Jedi Academy *Star Wars: Jedi Knight II: Jedi Outcast *Star Wars: Jedi Knight: Jedi Academy *The New Essential Chronology *Threats of the Galaxy *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Empire Reborn members Category:Galactic Empire science and engineering personnel Category:Humans Category:Imperial Navy admirals of the Galactic Empire Category:Males