5134
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Stam_Reath
Stam Reath
4921

Stam Reath was a Human male Padawan serving the Jedi Order and the Galactic Republic in the decade leading to the Clone Wars. A Force-sensitive Human male, Stam Reath and his sister, Naat, were given to the Jedi Order for training in the ways of the Force by their parents. Studying together at the Coruscant Jedi Temple during the Separatist Crisis which would plague the Galactic Senate for nearly a decade, Reath was selected as a Padawan by Jedi Master Echuu Shen-Jon while his sister remained at the Temple. Selected as part of Master of the Order Mace Windu's task force that was sent to rescue Obi-Wan Kenobi, Anakin Skywalker, and Senator Padmé Amidala from Geonosis, Reath and Shen-Jon rushed to the planet to fight during the opening salvo of the Clone Wars. thumb|left|200px|[[Echuu Shen-Jon looking upon the body of his Padawan, Stam Reath]] At some point after Yoda arrived with Clone reinforcements to evacuate the Jedi task force from the Petranaki arena, Reath and his master joined High Council members Plo Koon and Ki-Adi-Mundi, along with several other Jedi in a mission to destroy several Trade Federation battleship cores. Completing the mission successfully, the group was then ordered to prevent Count Dooku from escaping to a hangar and leaving the planet. When the Jedi reached the area, they encountered Dark Acolyte Sev'rance Tann, a prominent General for the Confederacy of Independent Systems. Reath declared Dooku's arrest and attempted to stop him. Tann quickly engaged Reath in a lightsaber duel, resulting in Reath being quickly cut down, with Tann mocking his abilities as she and Dooku made their escape. Reath's last words were directed at his master, conveying his belief that he had failed his master. But Shen-Jon assured him that it was he who had failed Reath. Reath's death left both his sister and Shen-Jon in great emotional pain and suffering from the temptation of the dark side of the Force. Stam Reath was voiced by actor Jess Harnell. *Star Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds: Clone Campaigns *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Humans Category:Jedi assault team members Category:Jedi trainees of the Jedi Order Category:Males Category:Post-Ruusan Jedi