5230
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Alora_(Dark_Jedi)
Alora (Dark Jedi)
11173

|gender=Female |pronouns=She/her |height= |mass= |hair= |feathers= |eyes=Green |skin=Red |cyber= |families=new |parents=new |partners=new |siblings=new |children=new |affiliation=*Disciples of Ragnos *Imperial Remnant |masters=Tavion Axmis |apprentices= }} Alora was a female Lethan Twi'lek Dark Jedi active during the early years of the New Jedi Order. She was the apprentice of Tavion Axmis, who led the Disciples of Ragnos cult, a cult that Alora was part of. Alora infiltrated the Jedi Praxeum on the moon Yavin 4 in an attempt to steal a list of locations with significant Force nexuses to aid the Disciples of Ragnos in their resurrection of the ancient Sith Lord Marka Ragnos. After the Twi'lek was dispatched to the planet of Hoth to gather information, Alora encountered and dueled Jedi Initiate Jaden Korr within the former Rebel Alliance base, Echo Base. The Dark Jedi was defeated and withdrew, fleeing and traveling to Taspir III, a planet on which she encountered Korr and was killed by the initiate. thumb|left|250px|Alora on Hoth, seconds before her first encounter with Jaden Korr The Lethan Twi'lek Alora was a member of the Disciples of Ragnos, a Sith cult that worshipped the ancient Sith Lord Marka Ragnos. She was an apprentice of the cult's leader, Tavion Axmis, by 14 ABY during the cult's effort to resurrect Ragnos with a powerful dark artifact called the Scepter of Ragnos. As Axmis' most prized apprentice,Star Wars: Jedi Knight: Jedi Academy: Prima's Official Strategy Guide Alora was tasked with infiltrating Jedi Master Luke Skywalker's Jedi Academy on the moon Yavin 4, where Alora stole a list of locations strong in the Force by gaining access to the Jedi mainframes. By travelling to these locations, Axmis would then be able to resurrect Ragnos by siphoning the Force energies into the Sceptre. Accompanied by support from Axmis' allies in the Imperial Remnant, Alora travelled to the planet Hoth to gather information on the Force energies located there. While they were searching Echo Base&mdash;a hideout used by the Rebel Alliance during the Galactic Civil War&mdash;a Sith cultist managed to determine from flight trajectories that Skywalker had traveled to the planet Dagobah following the Battle of Hoth. The cultist downloaded the flight information and transmitted the data to Alora before being killed by Jedi Initiate Jaden Korr, who was on Hoth as part of an investigation into the locations mentioned in Skywalker's records. Alora relayed the information to Axmis, who congratulated her apprentice and told Alora to meet her on Dagobah, when she was located by Korr in a hangar inside the base. Alora engaged Korr in a duel, but fled when she realized that she couldn't gain the upper hand. Angered, she taunted Korr as she escaped and claimed they would cross paths again. Alora trained furiously after her defeat on Hoth and adopted a second lightsaber. The next time she encountered Korr was on the planet Taspir III, where Korr had travelled with his Master Kyle Katarn in search of Katarn's other apprentice, Rosh Penin. Penin had renounced the dark side and was held captive in the Disciples' large facility, where Alora was ensuring that he was secure and unable to escape. Korr's arrival surprised Alora, and she taunted him from various ledges and balconies while leading him on a chase throughout the facility until they reached the hangar where Penin was secured. Korr confronted Penin for his betrayal, and seeing his anger, Alora encouraged Korr to strike Penin down and join her and Axmis on the dark side. After Korr let his anger dissipate with Katarn's telepathic assistance, Alora realised he would not turn, enraging her and causing her to cut off Penin's arm with her lightsaber. She then attacked Korr and was killed as a result. Alora was easily angered and extremely overconfident, a trait encouraged by her Master. Her overconfidence was evident when she first encounted Korr on Hoth, and remarked that Skywalker was sending "children" after the Disciples of Ragnos. The second time she faced Korr, on Taspir III, she crowed that she had learnt many things from Axmis and called him a "sanctimonious fool;" however, her overconfidence proved to be her downfall and she was subsequently killed. She also proved she was quick to anger in how enraged she became when her attempt to convince Korr to turn to the dark side failed, and she reacted by slicing off Penin's arm. thumb|right|Alora utilizing Jar'Kai on Rosh Penin Alora was a very fast learner and picked up all that her Master taught her. She was flexible, agile, and feminine which was reflected in her acrobatic, graceful lightsaber styles. Focusing on lightsaber combat, she wielded a red-bladed Adept lightsaber and utilized the Fast style of the New Jedi Order. After her duel with Korr on Hoth, she began using an additional red-bladed Adept lightsaber and became extremely deadly with the Jar'Kai style of combat. In addition, Alora was very skilled in the use of Force Jump, Force speed and telekinesis. Although she did not use dark side Force powers frequently, she did demonstrate proficiency in the use of Force lightning and Force rage. thumb|right|320x320px|Alora's inactive alternate model Alora first appeared in the 2003 Star Wars Legends video game Star Wars: Jedi Knight: Jedi Academy and was voiced by Grey DeLisle. In the video game, Alora is the only character to have a different animation for Force Jump. Her version is a forward cartwheel while the standard animation for all other characters is a somersault. She can also perform a unique saber throw, throwing both her lightsabers at the same time and has a different taunt animation, briefly levitating and spinning both her blades. If the player chooses the non-canon dark side path in Star Wars: Jedi Knight: Jedi Academy, Alora commends Korr for killing Penin. However, Korr feels the Scepter should belong to him and Alora still engages him in a duel. A second Alora model and skin exists in the game files and is available for use in multiplayer, but the code for her alternate appearance to be used when Korr meets Alora on Taspir III is commented out in favor of reusing her primary attire. There are no comments in the code justifying the reason for this and it is easily changed with a third-party modification.Editing GameData\base\assets1.pk3\ext_data\npcs\alora.npc in the Jedi Academy data files to comment out playerModel alora and uncomment playerModel alora2 for the alora_dual NPC will apply this change. A mod exists to enable this change at . *Star Wars: Jedi Knight: Jedi Academy *Star Wars: Jedi Knight: Jedi Academy: Prima's Official Strategy Guide *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Dark Jedi Category:Disciples of Ragnos members Category:Females Category:Individuals with she/her pronouns Category:Lethan Twi'leks Category:Sith acolytes and apprentices