5211
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Outland_Transit_Station
Outland Transit Station
5149

Outland Transit Station, colloquially known as simply Outland Station, was a massive space outpost above a barren planetoid in the Outer Rim Territories and was a common destination for traders. Its key attractions were the pit beast-fighting arenas and Merchant Row. The station was divided into several districts. The Entertainment District contained the gladiatorial arena (famous for its beast fights). Merchant's Row housed places of business where vendors sold their wares and merchants carried out interstellar trade. Finally, the docking area housed the ships of visitors to the station. This area featured an elaborate system of conveyor belts which transferred cargo to and from waiting ships. Magnetic sealers were used to protect volatile cargo. Outland Transit Station was built above a barren planetoid, until partially destroyed by the bounty hunter Montross in an attempt to kill Jango Fett, shortly after the Invasion of Naboo. During that time, Dexter Jettster operated a weapons shop on the station, where he supplied mercenaries and bounty hunters however, following the attack on the station, Jettster eventually relocated to the planet of Coruscant. At the end of the Clone Wars, the Besadii and several allied kajidics repaired and refurbished Outland Transit Station in an effort to further their control of the spice trade.Lords of Nal Hutta By the Galactic Civil War, the station had become a common destination for traders heading into Hutt Space from the Baxel sector and the site of many intrigues among smugglers, rebels, Hutt operatives and Galactic Empire agents during the Galactic Civil War. *Star Wars: Bounty Hunter *Star Wars Roleplaying Game Revised Core Rulebook *Star Wars: Bounty Hunter: Prima's Official Strategy Guide *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia *The Essential Atlas *Lords of Nal Hutta Category:Baxel sector locations Category:Space stations in the Outer Rim Territories Category:Space stations in the Slice