5544
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Fay
Fay
13214

|gender=Female |pronouns=She/her |height=1.8 meters |mass= |hair=Blonde |feathers= |eyes=Gray |skin=Light |cyber= |families=new |parents=new |partners=new |siblings=new |children=new |affiliation=*Jedi Order *Galactic Republic |masters= |apprentices= }} Fay was a centuries-old, female near-Human Jedi Master who was known to have had an intensely strong connection with the Force which allowed her to retain a youthful appearance. She was one of several legendary wandering Jedi Masters whose exploits were known throughout the Jedi Order. Not believing that she was destined to teach, she left the Core and began roaming the Outer Rim worlds. For many centuries Fay allowed the Force to guide her to where she was needed, and as a result, was known to have resolved many conflicts, and even ended entire wars. During the Clone Wars she felt the Force guide her to the planet Queyta, where she rendezvoused with a number of other Jedi Masters, including Obi-Wan Kenobi, to recover a vital antidote needed for a deadly new chemical weapon. The ensuing mission resulted in Fay and the other Jedi encountering the Dark Jedi Asajj Ventress and Durge, a 2,000-year-old bounty hunter. During the confrontation, Fay fought with Ventress, but following an intense explosion, Ventress severely wounded the Jedi Master. Fay gave her last remaining strength to Kenobi so he could escape with the antidote, and thereby save millions of lives. thumb|left|150px|Jedi Master Fay The near-Human female Fay lived during the last centuries of the Galactic Republic. A Force-sensitive, she passed the Jedi Trials and became a Jedi Knight, after which she felt that the Force was calling her to lead a nomadic life away from the Core. After attaining the rank of Jedi Master, she decided to leave the Jedi Temple on Coruscant and refused to take a Padawan, choosing instead to roam the galaxy wherever the Force guided her. Throughout the following centuries she rarely had reason to travel back to the galactic capital, preferring to go where she felt she was needed. As time passed, and Fay was seen less and less on Coruscant, her exploits in the far corners of the galaxy soon took on a legendary status among many Jedi students. However, a number of the older Masters knew that the legends were actually real, and they paid close attention when reports were received from far flung planets of deeds done by a mysterious Jedi matching Fay's description. Her time in the field, whether it was on the most remote rural planets or those closer to the Core, helped save thousands of lives. She was known to have resolved many conflicts and wars by flooding peace and love into the hearts of those gripped by hatred. Throughout the hundreds of years that she mediated wars on any number of planets, she never once used a lightsaber in physical combat&mdash;indeed, it was believed that after her initial training, she never even carried one. thumb|200px|Fay uses the Force against Ventress. During the early months of the Clone Wars, Fay felt that the Force was guiding her to the volcanic planet Queyta. Once there, she realized that several other nomadic Jedi had felt the call of the Force as well&mdash;she met with Jedi Masters Nico Diath, Jon Antilles, Knol Ven'nari, and Obi-Wan Kenobi, who had been involved with the war since its beginning. Kenobi was the last Jedi to arrive on the planet, and Ven'nari berated him for being late, saying that she had better places to be. Fay, however, could sense the pain and tragedy which Kenobi had already suffered thus far in the war, and reached out her hand to his forehead and filled him with a new sense of hope and energy. The Jedi's mission was to infiltrate a chemical factory and acquire the antidote to a new Separatist biological weapon known as swamp gas. However, upon entering the factory, Diath commented that there were no battle droids&mdash;Fay and the other Jedi heightened their Force awareness as Kenobi led the search for the antidote. The search, though, came to an abrupt halt when Fay and others encountered the Dark Acolyte Asajj Ventress and the bounty hunter Durge. Immediately, Durge caused a huge explosion, and the ensuing fight saw the bounty hunter kill Masters Ven'nari, Diath, and Antilles. After witnessing the death of Nico Diath, Fay realized that Ventress was trying to escape with the antidote. To stop her, Fay used the Force to hurl debris and broken glass at the fleeing Ventress, causing her to falter due to her wounds. Even though Ventress tried to crush Fay's heart with the Force, Fay was able to combat the Dark Jedi's attempts and use the Force to pull away all of Ventress's thoughts, causing her to faint. After Ventress had been neutralized, Kenobi advised Fay that he had recovered a vial of the antidote, and together the two Jedi started to withdraw in the wake of the factory's destruction. thumb|left|280px|Fay receives a mortal wound from Asajj Ventress. The chemical factory had begun devolving into chaos due to several large explosions initiated by Durge. As Fay and Kenobi attempted to escape the compound, a large explosion occurred near the Jedi, causing Fay to falter and drop her guard. During those few moments, a revived Ventress used her double lightsabers to pierce Fay from behind, leaving her severely wounded. Ventress and Durge realized that the factory was near its final destruction and boarded a nearby Separatist ship, leaving Kenobi and Fay to die. Even though the wounds she had received from Ventress were severe, Fay's strong connection with the Force would have allowed her to eventually recover. However, she recognized the dire need for the Republic to have the antidote that Kenobi possessed, and in a final act of self-sacrifice, touched Kenobi and filled him through the Force with her last reserves of strength. Due to Fay's sacrifice, Kenobi was able to jump to safety and ultimately escape the planet to bring the antidote back to the Jedi Temple on Coruscant. thumb|150px|A holographic memorial in honor of Fay. Among all the species who encountered her, Fay was regarded as a striking woman, and Jedi Master Qui-Gon Jinn once described her as "beautiful and ageless" after an encounter with the Jedi Master. Following the mission to Queyta, Obi-Wan Kenobi commented that no one hated Master Fay, and that throughout her entire Jedi career she never felt the need to use a lightsaber in combat. For many centuries, she roamed the galaxy while being guided by the Force&mdash;the physical presence of her personality, combined with her wisdom in the Force, allowed Fay the opportunity to bring peace and harmony to many war-torn planets she encountered. Fay was distinguished by her pale skin, blond hair, and her pointy ears which resembled those of the Sephi. She also had distinctive tattoos on her left cheek and forehead. Due to her deep connection with the Force, Fay's physical body was ageless, and she appeared to be a beautiful twenty-year-old almost her entire life. Fay's first and only appearance was in Republic 53, the fifty-third issue in the Star Wars: Republic series of comics. Her character and story were conceived by writer Haden Blackman and penciled by artist Brian Ching. The character of Fay also shares characteristics with near-human individuals such as Aleco Stusea, an unnamed member of the Wardens of the Sky, and Princess Lourdes. All these characters have pointy ears. Leland Chee, on the Star Wars Message Boards, stated that his theory is that "all pointy-eared species are either Sephi or closely related to Sephi." *Republic 53 *The New Essential Chronology *Star Wars: The Comics Companion *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Females Category:Individuals of unidentified species Category:Individuals with she/her pronouns Category:Near-Humans Category:Post-Ruusan Jedi Masters