5682
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/All_Stars_Burn_as_One
All Stars Burn as One
9396

, the Republic anthem during the Galactic War was confirmed to be "All Stars Burn as One" in a conversation between two Imperial soldiers in Star Wars: The Old Republic: Rise of the Hutt Cartel on Makeb. As "Deals and Double Deals" occurs during Act II, which takes place between 3643 BBY and 3640 BBY per the reasoning here, "All Stars Burn as One" must have been composed before 3640 BBY. |media type=MusicThe Cestus Deception |pages= |published in= |genre=Anthem }} "All Stars Burn as One", also known as the Republic Anthem or Anthem of the Republic, was the official state anthem of the Galactic Republic and had been composed by the year 3640 BBY. The anthem was generally played as a greeting at diplomatic and military meetings and was used by the Republic until it was reformed into the Galactic Empire in 19 BBY. At some point after the Empire was formed, Imperial Edict 2.33b forbade the playing of "All Stars Burn as One." }} "All Stars Burn as One" was a piece of music that was used as the anthem of the Galactic Republic. The anthem could be sung and had multiple stanzas. The piece was considered to have a martial sound by the Sullustan journalist Den DhurMedStar I: Battle Surgeons and was thought to be a stirring piece of music by the Human Jedi Knight Obi-Wan Kenobi and the Vippit barrister Doolb Snoil. The piece of music titled "All Stars Burn as One" had been composed by 3640 BBY. Between 3643 BBY and that year, the music was the anthem of the Galactic Republic who was fighting the Galactic War against the reconstituted Sith Empire. By 22 BBY,The New Essential Chronology at the time of the Clone Wars fought between the Republic and the Confederacy of Independent Systems, "All Stars Burn as One" was still the anthem of the Republic. While the song excited the Jedi Knight Obi-Wan Kenobi at one point in his life, the tense political and militaristic situations that permeated the Clone Wars eventually made hearing the song uncomfortable for him. During the war, around the year 22 BBY,The Essential Reader's Companion Kenobi was sent to the prison planet Ord Cestus to prevent the sale of the Force-sensitive JK-13 security droids, which posed a significant threat to Jedi. Upon his arrival in Ord Cestus's capital, ChikatLik, a band of musician droids greeted the Knight's party with renditions of the Cestian anthem and "All Stars Burn as One." The anthem was also played when a high-ranking officer or visiting dignitary would arrive at a Republic site. In 20 BBY, the anthem was played when Admiral Tarnese Bleyd arrived to inspect Republic Mobile Surgical Unit 7 during a battle on the planet Drongar. At some point afterStar Wars: The Force Unleashed II the Republic became the Galactic Empire in 19 BBY, the Empire passed a law known as Imperial Edict 2.33b that forbade the playing of "All Stars Burn as One." Around the year 12 BBY,The New Essential Chronology establishes that Leia Organa was born in 19 BBY. Star Wars: The Force Unleashed II states that Princess Leia Organa was seven years old when she was expelled from Crevasse City Collegium for Young Ladies. Therefore she was expelled around the year 12 BBY. Princess Leia Organa of the planet Alderaan tampered with the public address system during an assembly at the Collegium for Young Ladies in Crevasse City, re-programming the device to play the forbidden anthem. The incident was one of several that prompted the Collegium's Board of Directors to expel the girl from the school and return her father's 30,000 credit bond. The Galactic Republic's anthem was first mentioned in "When the Domino Falls," a 1994 short story written by Patricia A. Jackson for West End Games' third issue of the Star Wars Adventure Journal. In 2004, the Republic anthem was given the name, "All Stars Burn as One," when the anthem made its first appearance in The Cestus Deception, a novel written by Steven Barnes. In 2011, the BioWare video game Star Wars: The Old Republic featured a bonus quest series on the planet Balmorra where the Galactic Republic&ndash;affiliated player is tasked with changing the music in the Sith Empire&ndash;controlled Sunken Sarlacc cantina to something more patriotic. The music that is played when the player completes that part of the quest is the same as the Old Republic theme from the 2003 video game Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic, which also serves as Revan's theme and the main theme.Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic However, the game does not state whether the music played is the Republic anthem. *Star Wars: The Old Republic *Star Wars: The Old Republic: Rise of the Hutt Cartel *The Cestus Deception *MedStar I: Battle Surgeons *Star Wars: The Force Unleashed II *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Culture of the Galactic Republic Category:Patriotic and military songs