5688
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Artistic_Integrity_(song)
Artistic Integrity (song)
4658

describes the band The Emperor's New Clothes as belonging to the minga genre of music. }} }} "Artistic Integrity" was a song from the pro-Imperial musical group The Emperor's New Clothes' eponymous album. "Artistic Integrity" was written as a response to the songs "Torch Song" and "Just Another Art Form" by the band Deeply Religious, with whom The Emperor's New Clothes were engaged in a feud. "Artistic Integrity" was the title track from the pro-Imperial musical group The Emperor's New Clothes' album of the same name, the band's latest release at some point in time between 0 ABY and 4 ABY.Galaxy Guide 9: Fragments from the Rim is set in the time period between the Battle of Yavin and the Battle of Endor, which are dated to 0 BBY and 4 ABY, respectively, by The New Essential Chronology, which also establishes the Battle of Yavin as the final event before the beginning of 0 ABY. Like the rest of the group's music, "Artistic Integrity" was approved by the Imperial Board of Culture, the Imperial organization charged with reviewing and censoring popular culture media. The song was composed in the minga genre and written as a response to the songs "Torch Song" and "Just Another Art Form" by the band Deeply Religious, after those two songs needled The Emperor's New Clothes. According to a Galactic Weekly NewsStack arts correspondent&mdash;who was using the pseudonym Ars Dangor&mdash;"Artistic Integrity" was a very pointed track, which stated that The Emperor's New Clothes were free to make their own music, despite the fact that not everyone liked it. Deeply Religious continued the feud, releasing the short track "Ooh, It Bites," which Dangor considered "nasty." Since Deeply Religious had been banned by the Imperial Board of Culture, the Board did not review their work, and Dangor speculated that the conflict between the bands would go on. "Artistic Integrity" was mentioned in a 1993 supplement to West End Games' Star Wars: The Roleplaying Game, Galaxy Guide 9: Fragments from the Rim, written by Simon Smith and Eric Trautmann. The song was elaborated upon in the book's segment titled "Latest Developments: The Emperor's New Clothes versus Deeply Religious," presented as an in-universe report by Ars Dangor. *Galaxy Guide 9: Fragments from the Rim Category:Songs by The Emperor's New Clothes