5607
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Vix_Fonnick
Vix Fonnick
8321

The High Republic Adventures: Quest of the Jedi |gender= |pronouns=She/herStar Wars: The High Republic Character Encyclopedia |height=1.68 meters (5 ft, 6 in) |mass= |hair= |feathers= |eyes=Blue |skin=Blue |cyber= |families=new |parents=new |partners=new |siblings=new |children=new |affiliation=Jedi Order |masters=Barnabas Vim |apprentices= }} Vix Fonnick was a Rutian Twi'lek Jedi who was the Padawan of the legendary Jedi Master Barnabas Vim. Fonnick wielded an indigo-bladed lightsaber. In 482 BBY,The Art of Star Wars: The High Republic: Volume II establishes the flashbacks of The High Republic Adventures: Quest of the Jedi take place a hundred years before the events of The High Republic Phase II, which Star Wars: The High Republic Character Encyclopedia dates to 382 BBY. the two traveled to the mysterious world Angcord in search of the Echo Stone. In 482 BBY, Vix Fonnick and her master, Barnabas Vim, travelled to the planet Angcord in search of Force artifacts. They had been drawn to Angcord by a legend that told of a gem capable of amplifying one’s connection to the Force; the gem had been hidden on the planet to keep it away from the Sith, and its powers had sustained the world ever since. However, there had been no communications from Angcord to the wider galaxy for many years, and as Vim and Fonnick approached the planet they felt a disturbance in the Force. They were hailed by the planet’s ruler, the Lady of Angcord, who informed them that she feared the world was dying. When they landed, the Lady told them that crops had been failing and trees withering, however her Pilgrim Warriors reiterated their faith in her and performed a demonstration of their Force powers. Fonnick angered the First Pilgrim by stating her disbelief that they could use the Force as Jedi did, causing Vim to reprimand her for not thinking before she spoke. The two then accompanied the Lady to an amphitheatre to observe the Pilgrim Warriors create visual displays through their control of the elements – mind-painting. Both Fonnick and her master were astounded by what they saw, with Vim professing that he had never witnessed a group of Force-users work so cohesively together. The Lady then volunteered to show them the source of Angcord’s power, taking the Jedi to see the Echo Stone kept in a sanctum beneath the city. Fonnick let slip that they were looking for Force artifacts, at which point the Lady and First Pilgrim became defensive, worried the Jedi meant to take the stone away. Vim attempted to assuage their fears, stating they would only do so with Angcord’s consent. The Lady then told the Jedi of the planet’s history and relationship with the stone; the first settlers had promised to protect the stone, and, in return, it would protect them. But Fonnick's master suggested that they had misunderstood the stone’s nature, positing that it had ‘lied’ to them, the idea of which outraged the First Pilgrim, who threatened the Jedi with violence until Vim managed to persuade the Lady to give him time to meditate on the stone. Fonnick was woken in the night by Vim, who had realised that both the light and dark side of the Force were present within the stone during a meditative sleep. The Jedi met with the Lady, informing her that the stone was indeed draining the planet of its vitality and had also affected the Lady herself. She denied this, but when Vim tried to sever her connection to the stone she instinctively lashed out, with the Pilgrim Warriors also attacking the Jedi. Fonnick and her master were hard pressed to hold off the attacks but managed to do so until the padawan was able to bring her lightsaber down upon the stone and shatter it into fragments. This act immediately made the Lady come to her senses, and she agreed that the Jedi must take the remnants of the stone away from Angcord. Having promised that the Republic would bring aid to the planet, Fonnick and her master departed. As they left, Vim told her that they would have to split up; he would take one shard to the source of the stone’s power in order to better understand it, while she would deposit the other fragments across the Galaxy. Fonnick expressed her doubts as to whether she would be able to go it alone, but Vim told her that she was ready. They both hoped their actions would avoid the shards being brought together by the wrong person. Vix Fonnick first appeared in The High Republic Adventures: Quest of the Jedi. She was originally going to be named Bly Fonnic, and then Bix. Her name was changed to Vix, to avoid confusion with the Andor character Bix Caleen.The Art of Star Wars: The High Republic: Volume II The name Bly was mistakenly used in the Quest of the Jedi publisher's summary. *The High Republic Adventures: Quest of the Jedi *The High Republic Adventures – Pathfinders 1 *The High Republic Adventures – Pathfinders 3 *The High Republic Adventures – Echoes of Fear 2 *The High Republic Adventures – Echoes of Fear 3 *Star Wars: The High Republic Character Encyclopedia *Star Wars: The High Republic: The Lightsaber Collection *The Art of Star Wars: The High Republic: Volume II Category:Individuals of unspecified gender Category:Individuals with she/her pronouns Category:Jedi trainees during the High Republic Era Category:Rutian Twi'leks