5694
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Vode_An
Vode An
4478

Vode An, meaning "Brothers All," was a Mandalorian war chant sung in Mando'a. Notably, before the Clone Wars, Jango Fett personally trained the first batch of Alpha-class ARC troopers for the Republic on Kamino. Fett instilled these clones with Mandalorian values, including having each clone memorize the Vode An. Other clones, including Clone Commandos, were taught the Vode An by their various Mandalorian trainers. This group of Mandalorians were brought to Kamino on Jango's request to train many of the more advanced clones; they were known as the Cuy'val Dar. The song referred to them as the "Wrath of Coruscant," which had a dual meaning, since they were being used by the Republic, and Coruscant was the original homeworld of the Mandalorians. The chant was famously sung by the clone troopers with the accompaniment of drums and horns. A variant was created for the Grand Army of the Republic and sung by Commandos Fi and Niner Skirata. {| ! Mando'a||Basic |- |colspan="1"|Kote!Kandosii sa ka'rta, Vode an.Coruscanta a'den mhi, Vode an.Bal kote, darasuum kote,Jorso'ran kando a tome.Sa kyr'am nau tracyn kad, Vode an.Kandosii sa ka'rta, Vode an.Coruscanta a'den mhi, Vode an.Bal...Motir ca'tra nau tracinya.Gra'tua cuun hett su dralshy'a.Aruetyc runi solus cet o'r.Motir ca'tra nau tracinya.Gra'tua cuun hett su dralshy'a.Aruetyc runi trattok'o.Sa kyr'am nau tracyn kad, Vode an!||colspan="1"|Glory!One indomitable heart, Brothers all.We, the wrath of Coruscant, Brothers all.And glory, eternal glory,We shall bear its weight together.Forged like the saber in the fires of death, Brothers all.One indomitable heart, Brothers all.We, the wrath of Coruscant, Brothers all.And...Those who stand before us light the night sky in flame.Our vengeance burns brighter still.Every last traitorous soul shall kneel.Those who stand before us light the night sky in flame.Our vengeance burns brighter still.Every last traitorous soul shall fall.Forged like the saber in the fires of death, Brothers all! |} Vode An is heard throughout several parts of the 2005 video game Star Wars: Republic Commando, including the main menu and several battle sequences. In 2016 the song, along with several other pieces of music from Republic Commando, was reused for the Mandalorian-centric "Chapter XIV: Mandalore's Revenge" of Star Wars: The Old Republic: Knights of the Fallen Empire. An instrumentation of part of Vode An chorus briefly plays as clone commando Gregor lay dying in the finale of the canon animated television series Star Wars Rebels, "Family Reunion – and Farewell," which first aired in 2018. *Star Wars: The Old Republic: Knights of the Fallen Empire *Star Wars: Republic Commando *Republic Commando: Hard Contact *Republic Commando: Triple Zero *Republic Commando: True Colors *Order 66: A Republic Commando Novel *Imperial Commando: 501st *Star Wars: The Force Unleashed II *The Essential Guide to Warfare Category:Mandalorian chants and songs