5786
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Wetland_assault_stormtrooper
Wetland assault stormtrooper
5792

Wetland assault stormtroopers, nicknamed swamptroopers, were specialized stormtroopers trained and equipped to operate in forested wetlands and other semi-aquatic environments, such as lakes, rivers, and settlements built on or near waterways. Their armor was tinted green for camouflage. thumb|left|150px|Swamptrooper armor which saw use during the time of the Galactic Civil War Trained to operate for extended periods in marshy environments, these specialized soldiers were deployed to dense, swamp theaters and similar environmental theaters such as lakes, rivers, and other waterways where settlements clustered on habitable planets. They are identifiable by their upgraded, green armor that allowed for easier operations in humid and poisonous environments. Their armor was tinted green to allow for camouflage in forested wetlands. While training aided the swamp troopers in navigating the swamps, a sealed suit and body glove with environmental sealants to keep out various biological perils thriving in swamps (such as toxic bacteria, swarms of stinging insects, amphibious carnivores, and the like), custom rebreathers in the helmets allowing the troopers to breath under water for a short amount of time, emergency flotation package, and enhanced viewfinder with multi-spectrum view-finders and terrain mapping software provided a greater chance of survival in the often dangerous swamps in which they operated. Each swamptrooper was armed with the Golan Arms FC-1 flechette launcher, except for the squad leaders, who carried Imperial Heavy Repeaters.Rebellion Era Campaign Guide Their survival kits include an emergency float and a serrated vibroknife. The early versions of swamptrooper armor closely resembled the armor of the Galactic Republic's clone scout troopers, and they also resembled forest-style camouflage versions of scout troopers. In the years leading up to the Battle of Hoth, some swamptroopers were forced to equip themselves with previously used stormtrooper scout armor, with a green tint. During the Galactic Civil War, Imperial Swamp Troopers fought Gungans resistance fighters in the swamps of the planet Naboo. Their armor became more and more specialized and by the time of the assault on the Jedi Praxeum on Yavin 4, it bore little, if any, resemblance to that of scout troopers, and bore a closer resemblance to the armor model used on the Death Star. *Star Wars: Jedi Knight II: Jedi Outcast *Star Wars: Tiny Death Star *Star Wars Galaxies: An Empire Divided: Prima's Official Strategy Guide *The New Essential Guide to Weapons and Technology *Star Wars Galaxies: Jump to Lightspeed: Prima Official Game Guide *Star Wars Galaxies: The Total Experience: Prima Official Game Guide *Star Wars Galaxies: The Complete Guide: Prima Official Game Guide *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia *Rebellion Era Campaign Guide *The Essential Guide to Warfare *Star Wars: Imperial Handbook: A Commander's Guide *Lords of Nal Hutta Swamptrooper