6084
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/3960_BBY
3960 BBY
8129

The year 3960 before the Battle of Yavin (BBY), as it was known in the Galactic Standard Calendar, saw the end of the Mandalorian Wars between the Galactic Republic and the Mandalorian warrior culture. Also known as the year 32,503 After the Tho Yor Arrival (TYA), the year 307 before the Treaty of Coruscant (BTC), the year 2,960 before the Ruusan Reformation, and the year 3,925 before the Great ReSynchronization (BrS), the year included the Battle of Malachor V, where Revan defeated Mandalore the Ultimate in single combat and the activation of the Mass Shadow Generator destroyed most of the Mandalorian forces. From the dying Mandalore, Revan discovered the Mandalorians had been influenced by the Sith, and his search for answers led to his and Malak's corruption at the hands of the Sith Emperor. The year's events had powerful ramifications, as they led to the Jedi Civil War of 3959-3956 BBY and the later Dark Wars. *The Galactic Republic scores a victory against the Mandalorians in a battle at the planet Onderon, and another victory in the Lianna system.The Essential Atlas *The Jedi Knight Revan lures the Mandalorians into a final showdown at the planet Malachor V, and he challenges their leader Mandalore the Ultimate to a duel to the death while the Battle of Malachor V rages. Revan wins their duel, killing Mandalore and taking his mask, though he learns that the Mandalorian Wars were orchestrated by the Sith. *The battle, and the Mandalorian Wars as a whole, is brought to end when Revan's lieutenant, the Jedi Meetra Surik, activates the Mass Shadow Generator on Revan's orders and destroys the Mandalorian fleets along with a large number of Republic forces and Jedi&mdash;Arren Kae among them *After witnessing the devastation caused by the weapon and feeling and the deaths through the Force, Surik severs her connection to the Force. *Revan and Malak depart into the Unknown Regions with a third of the Republic fleet,Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic though they travel alone to follow Mandalore's instructions to Rekkiad. There, they discover the tomb of Dramath the Second, and Revan leaves Mandalore's Mask in the tomb before they leave for Nathema. *After witnessing the devastation on Nathema, Revan and Malak follow the Sith survivors to Dromund Kaas. After months of posing undercover as mercenaries, they are lured into a trap where they are mentally dominated by the Sith Emperor and turned to the dark side of the Force. As Dark Lords of the Sith, they are ordered to locate the Rakatan space station known as the Star Forge.Star Wars: The Old Republic Encyclopedia *Darth Revan and his apprentice, Darth Malak, crash land on Lehon. They gain access to the Rakatan Temple of the Ancients which, in turn, grants them access to the Star Forge. *The Night of the Upside-Down Meteor occurs, where Grand Lord Lillia Venn of the Lost Tribe of Sith attempts to escape the planet Kesh in an Aurek-class tactical starfighter belonging to the Jedi Jelph Marrian. However, she is killed with her subordinates Sawj and Flen Luzo when the fighter explodes thanks to the explosives that Marrian placed inside. *Battle of Malachor V *Mission to Dromund Kaas *Search for the Star Maps *Mission to Rakata Prime *Lost Tribe of the Sith: Purgatory *Lost Tribe of the Sith: Sentinel *Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic *The Old Republic: Revan *Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic II: The Sith Lords *Star Wars: The Old Republic *The New Essential Chronology *The New Essential Guide to Droids *Knights of the Old Republic Campaign Guide *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia *The Essential Atlas *Galaxy of Intrigue *The Journal of Master Gnost-Dural *The Essential Guide to Warfare *The Essential Reader's Companion *Star Wars: The Old Republic Encyclopedia ---- Category:Years in the Old Sith Wars