6059
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Corusca_Rainbow
Corusca Rainbow
5226

*Jhemiti |registry= |aliases= }} The Corusca Rainbow was an Immobilizer 418 cruiser under the command of Captain Uwlla Iillor. The ship was originally called the Black Asp and served in the Imperial Navy. In 6.5 ABY it was part of the force assigned to Rachuk sector under Admiral Devlia. She participated in a skirmish with Rogue Squadron in the Chorax system while attempting to capture the Pulsar Skate. Lieutenant Potin was an officer at this time. The Black Asp gravity well projectors dragged the squadron out of hyperspace en route to Talasea. Unfortunately for the Asp, the Rogues were able to force her retreat. Following the loss of Borleias, Captain Iillor led the Black Asp in a defection to the New Republic. Renamed Corusca Rainbow, the ship and its crew were given a vital role in the siege of Coruscant. The Corusca Rainbow was to exit at the edge of the Coruscant system before the main fleet to determine if Rogue Squadron had successfully downed Coruscant's planetary shields. If it detected no shields, it would allow the fleet to exit directly above Coruscant; if the shields were intact, it would activate its gravity well generators to pull the fleet from hyperspace and avoid its defenses. Rogue Squadron brought the shields down at the last minute, allowing the Rainbow just enough time to power down the generators and join the fight. Early in the Yuuzhan Vong War, the Corusca Rainbow was assigned to the defense of Agamar. Admiral Traest Kre'fey moved the ship to the New Republic fleet gathered at Ithor and used it to prevent the Yuuzhan Vong ships from leaving after they devastated that world. *Star Wars: Empire at War *Star Wars: Empire at War: Forces of Corruption *X-Wing: Rogue Squadron *X-Wing: Wedge's Gamble *X-Wing: The Krytos Trap *The New Jedi Order: Dark Tide II: Ruin *The New Jedi Order Sourcebook *Scum and Villainy *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Captured starships Category:Immobilizer 418 cruisers Category:Starships of the Galactic Empire Category:Starships of the New Republic