6557
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Jedi_Enclave
Jedi Enclave
47809

Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic II: The Sith Lords |type= |location=Fields of Banir, Dantooine |interest= |rebuilt= |builder=Vodo-Siosk BaasJedi Academy Training Manual |height= |width= |affiliation=*Jedi OrderTales of the Jedi – Dark Lords of the Sith 1 *Galactic EmpireGalaxy of Fear: Clones }} The Jedi Enclave was a secret academy administered by the Jedi Order located on the planet Dantooine. As on Coruscant, Force-sensitive children were trained in the ways of the Force; however, the selection process was more rigorous and only the candidates with the highest potential were admitted. Overseen by a satellite of the Jedi High Council, the Enclave trained many influential Jedi during its centuries of operation, only closing during the Jedi Civil War when the attack on Dantooine by the forces of Darth Malak destroyed the structure. thumb|left|280px|Vodo-Siosk Baas prepares to duel with Exar Kun on the plains outside the academy. On the grassy plains of Dantooine, Jedi Master Vodo-Siosk Baas sought out a suitable location to construct a training center that would provide the Jedi Order with much needed Jedi Knights. Baas erected his academy by 3997 BBY, henceforth known as the Enclave. Oversight of the Enclave fell to Baas, who was responsible for the training of young Exar Kun in the ways of the Force. Among his other students were the Cathar students Crado and Sylvar; together the Jedi would spar in the ruins of Dantooine. Kun would later fall to the dark side of the Force, be anointed Dark Lord of the Sith,Tales of the Jedi – Dark Lords of the Sith 6 and eventually kill Master Baas at the height of the Great Sith War on the floor of the Senate Hall on Coruscant.Tales of the Jedi – The Sith War 3 thumb|right|250px|The superior Council chamber during the [[Great Hunt (Jedi)|Great Hunt.]] Following the death of Baas and later the end of the war, an administrative body was placed in charge of the Enclave, serving as a satellite to the Jedi High Council which had recently reconvened on Coruscant following the devastation of Ossus. This Council, made up of four Jedi Masters, would oversee all the needs of the Enclave and were responsible for insuring that its pupils upheld the Jedi Code so far from Coruscant. During this time the Council convened to discuss the dangers posed by now-deceased Sith Lord Kun's dark side beast called terentateks. As the beasts continued to prowl many worlds across the Republic, the Council commenced the Great Hunt, a galaxy-wide purge of the dark side abominations by the Jedi Order. As the number of terentateks dwindled, the Council declared the hunt over, but secretly assigned Jedi Knights Duron Qel-Droma, Shaela Nuur, and Guun Han Saresh to wipe out the last remnants of the beasts that remained on Korriban. Despite the Council's belief that more Jedi were needed for the task, they dispatched only three Knights; eventually all three were killed. Qel-Droma and Nuur fell on Korriban, while Saresh, after separating from the two, died on Kashyyyk, leading to the ultimate failure of their mission. thumb|left|300px|The west courtyard of the Enclave, with entrance to the younglings' quarter and view of the superior Council chamber. During the short decades proceeding the death of Baas and Kun, the academy flourished under the leadership of the satellite Council. Among the academy's students five Padawans: Shad Jelavan, Kamlin, Oojoh, Gharn, and Zayne Carrick, were selected to become the apprentices of four Jedi Seers and another Master that were stationed at the new Jedi academy on the planet Taris. Unknown to the Council, this rogue group of Masters eventually came to plan the sacrifice of their Padawans in an attempt to prevent a prophecy which foretold one of the apprentices would destroy the Jedi Order. The massacre on Taris was only partially successful, and their failure to kill all of the Padawans would have profound repercussions, inadvertently leading to an outbreak of Mandalorian attacks throughout the Ojoster sector. Carrick, the only survivor of the planned slaughter by his masters, was framed for the murders, and so sought out guidance from a member of the Enclave Council. Finding a dependable ally in his original mentor from the Enclave, Master Vandar Tokare, Tokare was contacted by the fugitive Padawan when his Master's betrayal had left him with no one else he could trust. When his father, banker Arvan Carrick, was targeted by the five Masters still pursuing him, Tokare welcomed the Carrick family to Dantooine's Enclave for as long as they liked and took Arvan Carrick as his new accountant.Knights of the Old Republic 12Knights of the Old Republic 31 thumb|right|250px|Mandalorians attacking the Enclave As the Mandalorian Wars roared about the Outer Rim Territories, the Council refused to back the Republic in their war efforts. Viewing this decision unacceptable, former Dantooine pupil Revan led a group of dissident Jedi against the Mandalorians, rallying hundreds of Jedi to his cause. Along with his Padawan, Alek, Revan was joined by former Dantooine trainee Meetra Surik; Surik would go on to be one of Revan's greatest supporters and military leaders during the war with the Mandalorians. In a stunning move, Revan's armies defeated the Mandalorians, hailing the war a victory for the Republic. During the war, Dorjander Kace's Mandalorians raided the enclave but they were defeated by the Jedi.Knights of the Old Republic: War 5 After the war, Revan and Alek disappeared and, during this time, the secret Enclave on Dantooine served as a focal point for the local community, housing a landing facility and several shops. Common folk could be found milling around just outside the Enclave walls, where they were safe from raiders and kath hounds. After the war with the Mandalorians, the defeated clans were sent into exile on the Outer Rim, and since Dantooine was so far from the Core Worlds, some started gathering there and poured their inbred need for conquest into petty raids on the settlers. The Jedi at the Enclave also served as a local security force, solving kidnappings, murders and family disputes; they took no steps, however, to stop the Mandalorian raiders until actual casualties were reported. In one case, the farmer Jon lost his daughter in a raid of the Mandalorian Sherruk; he sought an audience with the Council, which was known for taking its time on deciding such matters. thumb|left|280px|Revan, former Jedi and Sith Lord returns to the Enclave during the war, aboard the [[Ebon Hawk.]] In a bizarre turn of events, the Jedi heroes of the Mandalorian War returned from the Unknown Regions, proclaiming themselves Dark Lord of the Sith under the titles Darth Revan and Darth Malak. Leading a huge army of Jedi and Republic soldiers, Darth Revan crafted for himself a massive Sith Empire as he declared civil war on the Jedi Order. During the conflict the Council planned and executed an unprecedented assault, capturing Revan and reprogramming his mind. Escorting him back to Dantooine was Padawan Bastila Shan, who brought the amnesic Revan back aboard the Ebon Hawk, a star freighter they used to escape the destruction of Taris. The memories that had been created for him through the Force by the Jedi Council allowed him to be trained as a Jedi again without the dark taint of his past as ruler of the Sith. Jedi Master Zhar Lestin took it upon himself to train Revan once the council was convinced that ignoring his newly rekindled Force-sensitivity was not a safe course of action. Under the guidance of Jedi Master Dorak, the Enclave's official chronicler, Revan chose a more specific path of Jedi training and constructed a new lightsaber in the training room of the Jedi Enclave. As part of his training, Revan confronted a fallen Jedi in the Ancient Grove and convinced her to let go of her anger and return to the Order. The Jedi, Juhani, a Cathar who received training on Dantooine from Jedi Master Quatra, petitioned the Council to allow her to follow Revan off-planet as he journey to complete his final mission, and to whom the Council granted the wish to join Revan in his quest: to stop Malak and destroy the Sith Empire. Granting her wish Jedi Revan, Juhani, and Shan departed the Enclave in search of Revan's former Padawan. thumb|right|250px|The [[Dantooine Jedi Enclave Council|Enclave Council debates the fate of Revan in the main gathering chamber.]] As Revan and his companions ventured across the Republic, the Enclave began to see evidence of Revan's deeds. Several of the Sith Lord's former followers journeyed to Dantooine, seeking out peace with the Council and admittance to the Enclave for retraining. Among these individuals were former Sith hopeful Kel Algwinn, who decided to turn away from the Sith Academy on Korriban and seek out a Jedi Master. Even a Sith Master such as Yuthura Ban found a second chance with the Jedi after her encounter with the powerful Revan. Not only did Force-sensitives looking for solace journey to the Enclave; Revan encouraged average civilians to visit the academy and immigrate to Dantooine where they may find peace. Among these individuals were Elise Montagne and Samnt, two Humans who got acquainted thanks to Revan; the Twi'leks Lur Arka Sulas and Sol'aa; the Duros Kni; the Telosian Jordo; the Mandalorian Jagi; and the Twi'leks Lena and Malare. Wealthy land owner Ahlan Matale would also visit the Enclave and bother Jedi Master Vrook Lamar over his bickering with Nurik Sandral. Not only had the Enclave served as a place of learning for the past decades, but also as one of the major storehouses for Jedi artifacts that were saved from or created after the destruction of Ossus. While Revan sought out the destruction of the Star Forge, an ancient Rakatan creation used by the Empire, Malak returned to Dantooine in 3956 BBY and ordered the orbital bombardment that would level the Enclave and kill most of its occupants. The Enclave was left ruined and pillaged by the Sith who took with them holocrons that revealed the locations of other secret academies. With only the sublevel partially intact, the ruins of the academy were stained with the deaths of so many Jedi, their deaths echoing in the Force for years to follow, turning Dantooine into a cloak for Force users. Despite the setback, Revan destroyed the Star Forge and Malak, ending the civil war he began and bring about a short period of peace. thumb|left|280px|The ruined Jedi Enclave after the Sith bombardment As the Sith forces left Dantooine, the settlers of the planet were able to sustain a semblance of government by exploiting the ruins of the Jedi Enclave. Without the Jedi Council to provide guidance, a government was formed in the new city of Khoonda. The government permitted salvagers to become an organized group sanctioned by the Khoonda civil code and establish settlements in the area of the east courtyard of the Enclave. The government oversaw the relics the salvagers removed from designated salvage areas within the ruins, all of which were subject to a fee determined by their estimated value. By 3951 BBY, Khoonda's salvage industry was still a main source of income for the local community, but the only place left with reasonable salvage was the sublevel, which had become infested with large vicious insects called laigreks. During these years, the ruins were sought by others as well. The Handmaiden Brianna was appointed the task of acquiring a number of valuable Jedi relics by the former mistress of the Jedi Archives on Coruscant, Jedi Master Atris, who was gathering knowledge of the Force to a secret academy on Telos IV, as was intended in case of a sudden attack on the Jedi Enclave. Mical, a Republic diplomat on a mission to find traces of the Jedi, was found by exiled Jedi Meetra Surik in the Enclave's archives as he guarded what Jedi lore was left. Before he would join Surik's mission to find the remnants of the High Council, he mentioned his conclusions on the thefts, implying the Jedi themselves were behind most of them, for the sake of a seeming effort to prevent their knowledge from being used to find Jedi. thumb|right|200px|The Jedi Exile fought laigreks in the Enclave sublevel after the bombardment of Dantooine. Following the failed Conclave on Katarr, Jedi Master Vrook Lamar took advantage of the Enclave's permeation with the dark side to mask his presence from the Sith Triumvirate, a group of Sith that were responsible for initiating the Great Jedi Purge five years after the Order's Civil War. As Jedi Surik sought him out, she discovered that the people of Khoonda still held bitter memories of the Sith occupation that the presence of the Enclave cost them. Many hated the Jedi, and standing up for them became one way to be unpopular, although when Surik returned to Dantooine and saved Khoonda from the mercenary forces of Azkul during an uprising on the planet, the Jedi's reputation was somewhat redeemed and the Enclave was partially rebuilt. thumb|left|250px|Darth Traya uses the Force to drain the life-forces of the three last Jedi Masters. Where once the east entrance was completely caved in, Surik was able to pass with Jedi Master Kreia to meet the remains of the High Council. Jedi Masters Zez-Kai Ell, Kavar and Vrook Lamar were called to the Enclave to answer the threat of the Sith Triumvirate; Surik had sought them out on the planets of Nar Shaddaa, Onderon and Dantooine respectively, after Master Atris agreed to allow Surik to help the Jedi. Unknowingly Surik had been used by Kreia, who in reality was the alter ego of Triumvirate leader Darth Traya, to gather the so-called "Lost Jedi". As the last members of the Jedi Council of Dantooine attempted to pass judgment on Surik and strip her of the Force, Traya retaliated and murdered the Jedi by draining the Force from them. With Lamar, Ell, and Kavar dead, Traya need only to turn Atris to ensure the Order's utter annihilation. Sensing the arrival of Atris' bodyguards, the Handmaiden Sisters, at the Enclave, Traya disappeared as to let the Handmaidens capture Surik and take her back to the remote academy on Telos IV. Following the deaths of the Jedi Masters, Jedi historian Deesra Luur Jada returned to the Enclave to survey the ruins. Discovering the bodies of the Council members, Jada determined that the Enclave could never be rebuilt, and abandoned the site to history. Despite the historian's claim, the Order reestablished operations at the site nearly a century later, but the Enclave was permanently abandoned by the time of the Great Galactic War.Jedi vs. Sith: The Essential Guide to the Force thumb|right|250px|The ruins of the Jedi Enclave in [[3653 BBY.]] While operations had restarted on Dantooine, the Enclave was abandoned indefinitely following the return of the Sith Empire, the original organization not seen since the Great Hyperspace War. Following a costly war with the Republic and the Jedi, the controversial Treaty of Coruscant was signed and a protracted Cold War began. During the weeks proceeding the signing of the treaty, disgruntled Jedi Knight Fortris Gall summoned Republic Lieutenant Harron Tavus to the ruins of the Enclave to inform him of his treasonous acts. Indeed, Jedi Gall was working with a group of rebellious Jedi hoping to overturn the ruling of the Galactic Senate and the Jedi High Council in order to restart the war with the Empire. After agreeing to meet with others who thought like Gall, Jedi Master Dar'Nala and the Wookiee mercenary Dalborra met with Tavus in the ruined Council Chambers. During the meeting, the Jedi managed to convince Tavus to join them in a meeting with Sith representatives in the nearby Crystal Caves,Knights of the Old Republic 12 Joined by Jedi Satele Shan, Master Dar'Nala, Jedi Gall, Lieutenant Tavus, and Dalborra entered the caves to meet with Darth Angral and Darth Baras. The negotiations broke down quickly and a skirmish broke out between both sides. During the fighting Shan realized that Master Dar'Nala had succumbed to the dark side of the Force in her attempts to destroy the Sith and, before Shan could take her quietly, Dalborra punched the Togruta Jedi in the face, killing her. With the leader of the opposition dead, the other Jedi retreated and left the caves and the Enclave behind.The Old Republic, Threat of Peace Act 3: Uncertain Surrender }} The Jedi Enclave remained standing by the time of the Third Galactic War. In 3627 BBY, the Nova Blades, a pirate organization, launched a surprise assault on Dantooine. The incursion took place just to the west of the Enclave. Despite the battle, the Enclave itself was left mostly untouched. thumb|left|250px|Sith military forces deploying around the Enclave ruins during the Third Galactic War. In 3626 BBY, Darth Malgus visited the Enclave ruins, seeking to purge visions of his defeat and captivity by Emperor Vowrawn and Darth Krovos. Former Jedi Knight Aryn Leneer, living on Dantooine after leaving the Order, sensed the dark presence of Darth Malgus approaching the planet. Investigating the disturbance, she discovered Malgus within the ruins, engaged in combat with reactivated security droids. Realizing she could not defeat him on her own, she left and reported the incident to Jedi Master Gnost-Dural, who later informed the Alliance Commander. The Commander, Aryn Leneer, and Padawan Arn Peralun were dispatched to investigate. During the mission, they encountered an Imperial squad and confronted Colonel Barden Golah, who had been misled into defending part of the ruins as a diversion. After his defeat, the team discovered that Malgus had already departed, having secured a mysterious piece of information related to Darth Nul. The Enclave remained abandoned for the next several millennia, through war and peace time as the Jedi Order thrived on Coruscant and the Sith appeared defeated after the New Sith Wars concluded. However, war returned to the galaxy and the violence of the Clone Wars spread to peaceful Dantooine. Operating in secret, the geneticist Zeta Magnus, under the alias of Saturna the Garu, hid an accelerated GeNode chamber within the ruins and excavated ancient, abandoned cloning chambers within the sublevels. Using the lost and heretical Jedi cloning facilities, Magnus eventually came to develop cloning techniques which could produce a developed clone within hours. Despite Mace Windu's investigation, Magnus lured the Jedi Master off his trail and prevented the laboratory's discovery.SkyeWalkers: A Clone Wars Story 300px|thumb|right|The Jedi Falon Grey duels the Imperial clone trooper X1 in the Jedi Enclave. At the end of the Clone Wars, the Galactic Republic and the Jedi Order fell as the Galactic Empire took control of the galaxy. Jedi Knight Falon Grey survived Order 66 and hid in the villages surrounding the Enclave's ruins. When his existence was discovered, Darth Vader dispatched clone commanders X1 and X2 to neutralize him. X1 ordered the eradication of the villagers, causing his brother X2 to desert. The clone X2 and Falon Grey defended the villages from the Imperial attack and used the Enclave ruins to escape to a hidden hangar via the Crystal Caves. X2 blocked the entrance as the local militia fled into the ruins, while his brother, X1 ambushed them at the hangar's entrance and killed all the troops as well as Jedi Grey. Leaving X2 for dead the Imperials withdrew from the Enclave, leaving it once more filled with corpses. }} 260px|thumb|left|Ruins of the Jedi temple during the time of the Galactic Civil War Years later, the Galactic Civil War began to consume the galaxy and the Imperial forces clashed with rebel insurgents throughout the Empire. At that time, the Enclave's ruins had become legendary to the local citizens, known as "The Place of Fallen Rocks", with rumors circulating that all who entered them never returned. Detecting these rumors, the Empire propagated this idea. Nevertheless, many spacers and adventurers traveled to Dantooine in order to visit the ruins. The Enclave also attracted Force users, including Jedi and dark side adepts. Early during the Galactic Civil War, the Rebel Alliance set up a base near the ruins of the Enclave as they prepared to fight the Empire to restore the Republic. The Jedi Drakka Judarrl, a survivor to the Great Jedi Purge, came to Dantooine after she discovered the establishment of the Rebel base on the planet. She settled a cave located beneath the Jedi ruins, which entrance was hidden by a waterfall. From there, she organized raids against the Empire with the help of the local Dantari. 250px|thumb|right|Darth Vader is attacked by his clone in the ruins' cloning facility. After the Battle of Yavin, Darth Vader visited the Enclave in search of his son, Luke Skywalker. Vader believed that Skywalker, a Force-sensitive without a teacher, might search the Enclave for Jedi knowledge still hidden at the site. While exploring the ruin Vader discovered a mystifying cloning facility left from ancient times. Vader came to the correct conclusion that the technology was a remnant of ancient cloning research carried out by the Jedi Order. However, Vader ignored that the cloning chambers had the ability to create perfect physical clones of living beings who entered the ruins. In the month following the visit of Darth Vader, the cloning machinery in the Jedi ruins was somehow reactivated. Deeply corrupted by the dark side of the Force, the cloning chamber, completely staffed by droids, produced a group of clones that assumed the identity of Rebel personnel previously stationed on Dantooine. These clones occupied the nearby abandoned Rebel base where they appeared to maintain operations. However, the clones suffered many defects rendering them violent. In 0 ABY,The Essential Reader's Companion the Rebel sympathizers Mammon Hoole, Zak Arranda, and Tash Arranda visited the Rebel base and soon realized that the "Rebel" survivors in the base were not the allies they claimed to be. The cloning chamber in the Jedi ruins were eventually discovered by the explorers, immediately before Darth Vader's arrival on Dantooine. During the exploration of the Enclave, the active cloning droids, that had successfully cloned Vader, also cloned the Arrandas and Hoole. Attacking nearby settlements, the clones were eventually defeated and the cloning facility was destroyed as the trio escaped the ruins. In 1 ABY, the Rebel agents Dusque Mistflier and Finn Darktrin were dispatched to the abandoned Rebel base on Dantooine in order to recover a datacron containing sensitive information about Rebel sympathizers that was lost during the evacuation of the base. The datacron was eventually discovered in the ruins of the Jedi Enclave. A short time later, the dark side adept Luthik Uwyr and an Imperial operative tracked and killed an untrained Jedi Padawan in the ruins. thumb|280px|left|The grassy hills surrounding the Jedi Enclave. A prominent feature on Dantooine, the Jedi Enclave's façade was fashioned from local stone and masonry and made distinctive by large fin-like stone structures that encircled the complex's main buildings. Made up of three large above ground buildings and containing a ground floor and subterranean level, all areas of the Enclave were accessible from its main, central courtyard building which acted like a hub for navigating the compound. thumb|250px|right|The exterior of the Jedi Enclave. The Enclave's northeast face looked over the Khoonda plains, an area in which most foot-traffic to and from the Enclave took place. A small courtyard was established to connect the north and east wings of the building, stretching like spokes from the central building. During the academy's heyday the courtyard was typically crowded with Jedi, settlers, and refugees from the surrounding regions, all gathering in the hopes of gaining an audience with the Jedi Council. From the courtyard the ancient Rakatan Ruins left from the Infinite Empire was slightly visible and still strong with the dark side; kath hounds near these ruins were more dangerous, and people were told by the Council to avoid the area. To the south of the central building was the Enclave's landing platform, a long, oval-shaped building with high walls and no ceiling. Like the central building the bay's exterior stone work was ornamented by six large fins which were spaced evenly around the exterior. Several surveillance droids monitored the landing pad; in this area, Aratech opened both a general supply store and a droid facility. thumb|left|130px|Map of a section of the Enclave, c. [[3956 BBY.]] The main entrance to the Enclave was accessible from the east courtyard, the main approach to the complex from the Khoonda plains. The eastern "spoke" of the academy building housed the main hallway leading into the Enclave's central courtyard building. The main above ground structure of the complex, the central building consisted of an open-air courtyard, the hub of all activity in the Enclave. At the center of the courtyard stood a large circular planter containing a large tree; benches were spaced around the area and meditation was encouraged. Located on the north wing were the visitors' quarters, used by local non-Jedi in need of a place to rest and recuperate. thumb|right|260px|The landing pad Along the western wing were entry points to the main training dojo and a general gathering chamber which served as an audience chamber used by the Council to meet with locals. The large below ground chamber's floors were clear and lines of high-backed chairs ringed the curving walls of the chamber, occasionally broken by large trees set in niches in the wall. Directly above the room was the formal meeting chamber of the Jedi Council. The small rotunda's windowed walls overlooked the grassy plains outside while a ring of four chairs were positioned within. Following Malak's attack during the Civil War the façade of the Enclave was ruined and crumbling stone littered path ways. Inside the main building grass grew up through the ruined floors and collapsed areas allowed water to pool in the sublevel. The Council Chamber suffered a direct hit during the attack and had been obliterated, revealing the lower level gathering chamber to natural light. The chamber's floor was overgrown with weeds and all furnishing had long been stolen. thumb|left|200px|Map of the sublevel. Similar to the eastern wing, the west wing's entryway was barred by blast doors; yet while appearing outwardly the same, the entry hall descended under the Enclave's main floor and into the sublevel. Underneath the central courtyard building was a large garden chamber; large basins held flowering bushes that hung down over the stone edge of their containers. Situated on a raised dais, the garden chamber was filled with natural sunlight filtered in from above and a stone bench sat at the room's center. Scattered about the sublevel were several common rooms furnished with a few benches; there were also two large round classrooms and a room with a number of computer terminals. One of the common rooms led to a storage area, and another led to a droid bay which housed a number of GE3-series protocol droids; the Enclave's head technician, Dergar Chester, left notes about their overheating inconvenience. thumb|right|250px|The Jedi Enclave sublevel While many classrooms and training chambers were found in the sublevels, the largest room was the Jedi Archives which was located underneath the landing platform. Access to the Archives was restricted to only Jedi Masters, a policy which differed from the ruined library on Ossus and the main Archives on Coruscant. Like the Archives at the Jedi Temple on the capital world, the large chamber held its collection of holobooks on large stacks along its walls. The two story chamber housed duel levels of shelves and a large open area for study. At the end of the hall stood a stone statue under a unique light fixture. Not far from the Archives chamber was a room hosting the Enclave mainframe computer and a cluster of power conductors. In a separate chamber the Order housed rare artifacts, including armor and weapons, many of them recovered from Ossus. thumb|left|240px|The Jedi Archives Following the Sith invasion the sublevels were deemed off limits by the Khoonda Militia, the new stewards of the Enclave after the Jedi were destroyed following the Jedi Civil War. As the Enclave crumbled, beasts called laigreks began nesting in the lower levels, harrying and sometimes killing any who encroached on their eggs. A unique feature of the lower level was the hidden presence of an ancient Jedi cloning facility. Part of early Jedi experimentation into the cloning sciences, the writings of Master Simikarty eventually led to a strict ban on future experiments and the chamber was locked and forgotten. First excavated by Zeta Magnus in the decade preceding the Clone Wars, the cloning tanks resembled modern Spaarti cloning cylinders and they were capable of producing mature clones in a matter of days and even hours after Magnus modified some of the technology. The facility, which was completely manned by droids, would scan the minds of the subjects to be cloned and implant their memories into the cloned brains. Despite the advanced technology, the ancient Jedi technology was indeed flawed and produced a mild psychosis in the clones. }} thumb|right|180px|Three Jedi Enclaves: original, ruined and rebuilt. In Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic, while being interrogated by Saul Karath on the location of the enclave, Revan was quoted as saying, "Alderaan. They're on Alderaan." This is a reference to A New Hope, when Princess Leia revealed Dantooine as a fake location of a Rebel base when being interrogated by Grand Moff Tarkin, in order to protect Alderaan. A Jedi Master by the name of Tar'eelok was to be encountered by Revan in the Enclave while she trained her Padawan Garum, according to game files from Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic; the player would have had the chance of discussing a number of things with her, including the properties of Cortosis mineral, the Mandalorian raiders, the ancient grove, the Jedi Code and the Masters of the Council. Shuma the Hutt was also supposed to have a place in the Enclave and a conversation with Revan, but the character was cut. Cut content in Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic II: The Sith Lords included a character named Kaevee, a Jedi Padawan who remained in the sublevel after the bombardment by the Sith. Kaevee had learned to control the laigreks that swarmed the sublevel and referred to them as her "pets". In Star Wars: The Old Republic, the Jedi Enclave can be seen from atop of a cliff when the player travels to the far east of the map on Dantooine. However, access to the enclave is barred off by a death barrier on the regular map, and if the player tries to jump down the cliff, they will die and respawn elsewhere. The Enclave becomes briefly accessible in the flashpoint "Secrets of the Enclave." *Tales of the Jedi – Dark Lords of the Sith 1 *Tales of the Jedi – The Sith War 3 *Knights of the Old Republic 2 *Knights of the Old Republic 4 *Knights of the Old Republic 6 *Knights of the Old Republic 12 *Knights of the Old Republic: War 3 *Knights of the Old Republic: War 4 *Knights of the Old Republic: War 5 *Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic *Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic II: The Sith Lords *The Old Republic, Threat of Peace Act 2: New Galactic Order *The Old Republic, Threat of Peace Act 3: Uncertain Surrender *Star Wars: The Old Republic *Star Wars: The Old Republic: Knights of the Eternal Throne *Star Wars: The Old Republic: Onslaught *Star Wars Battlefront: Elite Squadron *Death Star *Galaxy of Fear: Clones *Star Wars Galaxies: The Ruins of Dantooine *Star Wars: Galaxy of Heroes }} *Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic: Prima's Official Strategy Guide *Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic II: The Sith Lords: Prima Official Game Guide *Star Wars Galaxies: The Total Experience: Prima Official Game Guide *The New Essential Chronology *Star Wars Galaxies: The Complete Guide: Prima Official Game Guide *Jedi vs. Sith: The Essential Guide to the Force *Knights of the Old Republic Campaign Guide *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia *Jedi Academy Training Manual *The Essential Atlas *The Essential Reader's Companion *Star Wars: Edge of the Empire Core Rulebook *Star Wars: Age of Rebellion Core Rulebook }} }} Category:Archaeological sites Category:Cloning facilities Category:Dantooine locations Category:Jedi academies Category:Jedi enclaves