7081
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Bornan_Thul
Bornan Thul
4174

Bornan Thul was a Human male who was a former noble of Alderaan, the co-owner of Bornaryn Trading, elder brother of Tyko Thul, the husband of Aryn Dro Thul, and the father of Raynar Thul. Bornan Thul originally met Han Solo in about 10 BBY on Alderaan. Solo was working as a pilot for the priests of Ylesia under the alias of Vykk Draygo. Solo had put into Alderaan for repairs after being attacked by pirates, and during his layover met Thul in a college cafe, along with Thul's then girlfriend Aryn Dro. Thul didn't like Solo, as he made a flirtatious move on Aryn, telling her of how he'd escaped the pirate attack. Thul anxiously hurried off from the cafe with Aryn in tow, preventing Solo from furthering his cheeky advances. Bornan had come into possession of a navicomputer that he was supposed to deliver to Diversity Alliance leader Nolaa Tarkona at a trade conference. However, he discovered what was in the navicomputer: the location of a plague warehouse. Horrified, he went into hiding, and Tarkona hired bounty hunters to find him. Bornan eluded capture for months, and at last visited the plague warehouse with the intent to destroy it. Unfortunately, he did not have enough ammo, and had to leave. On the way back, he was ambushed by bounty hunters, and his ship was damaged. After being rescued by Zekk, Bornan revealed that Boba Fett (actually Ailyn Vel having her father's identity) had sliced into his ship's navicomputer and gotten a hold of the coordinates of the plague warehouse. After recording an encrypted message to his wife explaining their plan, Bornan, Raynar, Zekk, Jacen and Jaina Solo, Tenel Ka, and Lowbacca gathered up some explosives and went to the warehouse with the intent to destroy it. They were almost finished wiring when Diversity Alliance ships showed up. In the ensuing confrontation with Tarkona in the warehouse, some of the plague canisters were broken, releasing viruses that included a disease aimed at Humans. Bornan was infected and closed himself in a sealed room to keep from spreading the deadly plague. He stopped IG-88, programmed to protect Bornan, from breaking down the door and ordered him to protect his son. Telling Raynar how proud he was, Bornan ordered his son, the droid, and Zekk to escape the asteroid and complete his unfinished work- to destroy the storehouse and the terrible biological weapons within. *The Paradise Snare *Young Jedi Knights: Shards of Alderaan *Young Jedi Knights: Diversity Alliance *Young Jedi Knights: Delusions of Grandeur *Young Jedi Knights: Jedi Bounty *Young Jedi Knights: The Emperor's Plague *Dark Nest III: The Swarm War *Fate of the Jedi: Apocalypse *Star Wars: Boba Fett *The New Essential Chronology Category:Alderaanians Category:Business owners and executives Category:House of Thul Category:Humans Category:Males Category:New Republic individuals Category:Nobility