7008
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Thracia_Cho_Leem
Thracia Cho Leem
6953

Thracia Cho Leem was a female Human Jedi Master serving in the Jedi Order in the waning years of the Republic Era. While not always agreeing with the Jedi High Council's choices, Master Leem maintained a good relationship with Councilor Mace Windu. She trained many Padawans to Knighthood, with one of her most prominent being the Fosh Jedi Vergere. Thracia Cho Leem was a Jedi Master in the years before the the fall of the Republic. Though atypical for a Jedi, she was respected and admired by the Jedi Council. She was trained as a Jedi Consular and was particularly renowned for her healing abilities. Leem lived her life amongst the people of the Republic, returning to the Jedi Temple only to present Padawans to the Council. During her travels, she violated the Jedi Code's ban on attachments, marrying several times and having many sons and daughters all over the galaxy. She was allowed to remain a Jedi Master even in light of the Council's knowledge of these affairs. Master Leem took several, predominately female, Padawans during her time in the Order. Few were as special as the Fosh Jedi Vergere. Having been with Vergere the moment she hatched, Leem took the avian as her apprentice and raised her to the rank of Knight. She was a very capable Jedi and chose to go on mission to the living planet Zonama Sekot in 30 BBY to investigate an attack there. Though confident in Vergere's self-reliance, Leem presented her concerns on Vergere's whereabouts after not hearing from her for a year. There, she encountered Jedi Knight Obi-Wan Kenobi and young Padawan Anakin Skywalker. Skywalker was close to dismissal from the Order for a dangerous Garbage pit race in Galactic City. Leem intervened and helped the Council realize Skywalker needed a mission to truly find his sense of purpose. She requested that Kenobi be sent to Zonama Sekot to investigate, which allowed Skywalker to go as well, something Kenobi was not initially thrilled about. The Official Star Wars Fact File 45 When the two returned to Coruscant, they concluded that Vergere had been taken by beings known as the Far Outsiders and that she was beyond the Order's reach. Leem then set out to counsel and heal Skywalker from his ordeal on the planet. Within months of this, Leem left the Order without explanation. The Great Holocron indicates that Leem was not considered a part of the Lost Twenty despite being a master at the time of her departure.Jedi vs. Sith: The Essential Guide to the Force Thracia Cho Leem was a human female with short gray hair, an aquiline nose, and large, ultramarine eyes. She was short and thin, being about the same height as 12 year old Anakin Skywalker at 1.35 meters. Somewhat unorthodox as a Jedi, she much preferred life outside the Jedi Temple. She rarely visited Coruscant, instead living on many agricultural worlds in the Mid Rim and Outer Rim. She was a constant reminder to the Jedi Council that serving the people requires understanding them. She was snarky and quick-witted, often criticizing the Council and their teaching methods. Encountering the Council lecturing young Skywalker, she accused them of "ganging up on the boy" and terrifying him". She was able to easily make her points to the Council known with snide and sarcastic remarks. Leem was one of the few people who could out jape Mace Windu, a fact he knew quite well. *Cloak of Deception *Rogue Planet *The New Jedi Order: Destiny's Way *Power of the Jedi Sourcebook *Jedi vs. Sith: The Essential Guide to the Force Category:Females Category:Former Jedi Category:Humans Category:Individuals with she/her pronouns Category:Jedi healers Category:Post-Ruusan Jedi Masters