7149
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Aban
Aban
4713

Aban was a male Human military officer in the Imperial Starfleet who served as captain and commanding officer of the Star Destroyer Bellicose during Grand Admiral Thrawn's campaign against the New Republic. Early in the Galactic Civil War, Commander Aban was assigned to oversee the construction of the Imperial Aquatic Garrison on the planet Sedri after the Galactic Empire discovered the world. Ships travelling to Sedri were still lost due to having to disable their hyperdrive inhibitors, making Imperial command reluctant to send more ships. This left the base understaffed, undersupplied, and isolated from the rest of the Empire. Aban was also ordered to obtain the Golden Sun as soon as possible. To achieve his mission, Aban had a lieutenant dispatch patrols to search Sedrian villages looking for the Golden Sun. If the patrols had not found the Golden Sun by the time an Aquatic Terrain Armored Transport was ready for deployment, Aban planned to raze the villages one by one until the Sedrians gave up its location. Aban entered into an arrangement with Karak, leader of a band of Sedrian renegades. In exchange for military support and weapons, Karak would give Aban half of the Golden Sun as well as the Alliance diplomat Mors Odrion. The Imperial-led attack on the settlement of Fitsay ultimately failed; when Aban contact Imperial command to request reinforcements to continue his campaign, Aban was told to make do with the forces he had available to him. After the Battle of Endor he was reassigned to the Imperial Starfleet, as commanding officer of the Bellicose. Aban was a part of Thrawn's personal armada and as such was placed in command of Thrawn's operations in the Taanab system following the failure at the Battle of Sluis Van. During this operation, the Dark Jedi Joruus C'baoth disobeyed Aban's orders and did as he pleased with the gunnery controls. Aban later commanded the Bellicose in an assault operation against the New Republic base on Ord Pardron in an effort to allow the Empire's capture of the Ukio system. Like most of the commanders under Thrawn, Aban was last reported in combat operations commanding the Bellicose at the Battle of Bilbringi. Aban was eager to take the fight to the New Republic as he and the rest of Grand Admiral Thrawn's forces prepared their assault on the Ukio system, but he was able to mostly conceal these emotions with his military demeanor. *Battle for the Golden Sun *Dark Force Rising *The Last Command *The Last Command 1 *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Humans Category:Imperial Navy captains of the Galactic Empire Category:Males Category:Thrawn's fleet personnel