7184
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Stouker_concussion_rifle
Stouker concussion rifle
4324

The Stouker concussion rifle was a ranged weapon built from scratch by the vicious Sissk, who used it as their primary weapon. While the Sissk had their own term for the weapon, outsiders dubbed it the "Stouker concussion rifle" after its primary component, a concussion chamber made by the Stouker company. Powered by power cells, it fired bullets of ionized air which exploded in shock waves. Each concussive blast consumed 4 cells.Dark Forces Manual: Coded Transmissions The rifle had a range of up to thirty meters, and the resulting explosion about four meters in diameter, with enough force to send an average human flying a short distance. It also possessed a secondary firing mode, the blast from which was less devastating in terms of radius, but had a greater impact on the target, as well as a rather noticeable recoil&mdash;sufficient to push an ordinary humanoid two or three steps backward with each shot. The weapon's inability to be blocked by a lightsaber, and the splash damage from the primary firing mode, made this one of the more effective weapons against Jedi, although a skilled Jedi (such as, possibly, Jaden Korr) could redirect a concussive blast in the general direction of its origin with a well-timed Force Push. The device became somewhat of a trademark of the Sissk gangs due to its unconventional construction, but by the end of the Galactic Civil War it had become widely adopted across the galaxy by various military forces, most notably the Imperial Remnant. Hazard stormtroopers of the Imperial Remnant were known to wield these weapons. Rax Joris, an Imperial officer in command of an outpost on Dosuun, also used one. There is an inconsistency in the game mechanics of Star Wars: Dark Forces in the usage and effectiveness of the rifle; the player/Kyle Katarn is wounded whenever a rifle hits nearby and thus can not use it in close range, but this is not true for the enemy Trandoshan sprites who can fire in close range, giving them a big advantage.Dark Forces Official Player's Guide In Star Wars: Jedi Knight: Jedi Academy, the Stouker concussion rifle was rarely effective against Force-using enemies in the single-player story mode as, apparently, all such foes were exceptionally skilled in Force pushing incoming explosive projectiles of all kinds&mdash;including concussion shots&mdash;back toward the player, even if the player moved after firing. This same tactic also applies to the PLX-2M portable missile launcher. *Star Wars: Dark Forces *Star Wars: Dark Forces Remaster *Star Wars: Jedi Knight: Dark Forces II *Star Wars: Jedi Knight: Jedi Academy *Dark Forces Manual: Coded Transmissions *Dark Forces Official Player's Guide *Star Wars: Imperial Academy Category:Concussion rifles