7414
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Shadow_Runner
Shadow Runner
8046

The Shadow Runner was the personal starship of husband-and-wife pilots Hok and Timar Daragon. In the year 5000 BBY, the Unification Wars of the Koros system broke out, and the forces of Empress Teta were encircled and besieged by rebels on Kirrek. Seeing an opportunity to make a profit by running supplies to the Tetan soldiers on Kirrek, Hok and Timar Daragon got the Shadow Runner repaired by Aarrba the Hutt on Koros Major and set out for Kirrek. However, by the time the Daragons reached Kirrek the battle had changed; usage of the exotic Force power known as battle meditation by Jedi Memit Nadill and Odan-Urr had released the last reserves of desperation in the rebels, who began firing on the weakest targets in the sky. Encumbered by the weight of the cargo, the Shadow Runner was not able to enter into sufficient evasive action, and the ship was caught in a crossfire and destroyed, killing the Daragons. The Shadow Runner was colored purple, and had several tendril-like apparatuses protruding out of one end of the ship. On the top of the hull, the ship featured several wings. The Shadow Runner featured a ramp coming out of its midsection, allowing goods and supplies to be loaded onto the cargo hold of the ship. However, too much weight in the cargo hold would cause the ship to slow down and its maneuverability to decrease. The Shadow Runner also featured battle-ready deflector shields, although they could be quickly damaged by steady turret fire. The cockpit was located around the midsection of the ship, with its viewport protruding from the main body of the vessel. The cockpit contained the piloting controls, as well as a command-coded comm system. thumb|left|200px|Shadow Runner in flight The Shadow Runner was the personal starship of husband-and-wife ship operators Hok and Timar Daragon, natives of the Koros system in the Deep Core. The Koros system erupted into war as the political leader Empress Teta launched a campaign to unify the seven worlds of the system. Her forces succeeded in unifying the first six, but the campaign stalled at Kirrek, where an army of rebels and pirates encircled and besieged a group of Teta's soldiers. During that time, the amount of supplies accessible to the besieged soldiers dwindled greatly. Seeing an opportunity to make a profit, Hok and Timar Daragon went to Aarrba's Repair Dock, a repair yard on Koros Major owned by a Hutt named Aarrba, to get the Shadow Runner spaceworthy so that they could run supplies to the Tetan soldiers. Aarrba fixed the Shadow Runner in exchange for a portion of the Daragons' profits, and also kept their backup ship, the Starbreaker 12, as collateral until they returned. The Shadow Runner promptly had its cargo hold filled to the brim with supplies by droids at Aarrba's Repair Dock. Hok and Timar Daragon bade their children, Gav and Jori Daragon, farewell and departed in the Shadow Runner. However, by the time the Shadow Runner reached Kirrek, the dynamic of the battle had changed greatly. Teta had enlisted two Jedi, Memit Nadill and Odan-Urr, to lead her forces. The two Jedi utilized the exotic Force power known as battle meditation to lower the morale of the rebels, unleashing their last reserves of desperation. Looking to do as much damage as they could before their defeat, the rebels began firing on the weakest targets in the sky. The Shadow Runner, upon entering Kirrek's atmosphere, was set upon by the rebel guns, forcing the Daragons to take emergency evasive action. Unfortunately for the Daragons, the heavy cargo aboard the ship reduced the Shadow Runner maneuverability. Caught in a crossfire, the Shadow Runner was destroyed and Hok and Timar Daragon were killed. The Shadow Runner was owned and operated by husband-and-wife pilots Hok and Timar Daragon. The Daragons were killed during the Battle of Kirrek, however, and the Shadow Runner was destroyed. The Shadow Runner only appearance in Star Wars canon is in Star Wars: Tales of the Jedi – The Golden Age of the Sith, a story arc of the Tales of the Jedi comic book series, written by Kevin J. Anderson and released in 1996. This appearance comes in the prologue issue, Conquest and Unification, in which the ship is destroyed. In this issue the ship was illustrated by Dario Carrasco, Jr. *Tales of the Jedi – The Golden Age of the Sith 0 Category:Tetan starships Category:Transports