7562
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Darovit
Darovit
11354

*Galactic Republic *Brotherhood of Darkness |masters=Githany |apprentices= }} Darovit, also known as Tomcat, was a failed Human Jedi Padawan and failed Sith during the last battles of the New Sith Wars. He was also the cousin of Hardin and the Sith Lord Darth Zannah. thumb|left|120px|Darovit falls to the dark side. The Jedi scout Torr Snapit discovered Darovit on Somov Rit along with his cousins, Hardin (known as Bug) and Zannah (known as Rain). He was allowed to join in the war between the Army of Light and Brotherhood of Darkness by their cousin and guardian, Root. On the way to the Army of Light base on Ruusan, the starship flown by Torr Snapit was brought down in the forest. Snapit allowed the children to cross a rope bridge to safety, then sliced it with his lightsaber. After the Sith and Torr had fallen down the canyon, Darovit climbed down to retrieve Torr's lightsaber and found him alive. Although Torr pleaded for him to leave it, Darovit left him dismayed as he took it anyway and rejoined his cousin. The ragged remnants of the Army of Light and the brutal reality of the war failed to fit in with the youth's expectations of what being a Jedi would be like. He betrayed the Jedi, murdered General Kiel Charny and joined the Sith as a pupil of Dark Lady Githany. At the end of the Seventh Battle of Ruusan, he turned his back on the dark when he proved unable to kill Hardin. thumb|right|180px|Zannah causes Darovit's hand to explode. However, no sooner had he made his decision when he became powerless to prevent either his mentor or his cousin from being killed by Lord Kaan's thought bomb. He was one of the few survivors of the thought bomb, although he had no idea how he managed it. After the thought bomb, he was drawn to the nexus of trapped souls it had created. There, he encountered Rain (now using her real name Zannah) and her Master Darth Bane. Believing Bane to be about to kill them both, Darovit drew his lightsaber against him. Zannah drew on the dark side, exploding the hand Darovit was holding the lightsaber with, to allow Bane to spare his life - her last act of mercy before becoming a true Sith. thumb|left|250px|Darovit with the Bouncers. Darovit remained on Ruusan, where he was befriended by the Bouncers, who taught him herbal lore which he used to treat resident humans, who dubbed him "the Healing Hermit." After years wandering, he finally built a simple hut in the boreal forests in 996 BBY. When Johun Othone was overseeing the creation of the Jedi memorial on Ruusan in 990 BBY, Darovit was enraged and constantly sabotaged the construction. He was later caught by Othone, and the Jedi convinced Darovit to come to Coruscant and let everyone know of the Sith Lords, Bane and Zannah, that he'd seen. Before he could testify and let his story be known, however, Darovit found Zannah, who was disguised as a Jedi, in the Jedi Archives. Fearing that she'd be discovered, Zannah took Darovit with her aboard the Loranda to Tython. There, Darovit was instructed to hide in the closet inside of Belia Darzu's castle, as the Sith Lords engaged in a duel against the pursuing Jedi. Following the aftermath of the duel, Darovit was instructed by Zannah to take the holocron of Belia Darzu and the five lightsabers from the Jedi with him to the Loranda. Darovit accompanied Darth Zannah to Ambria, where they confronted Caleb, to heal Darth Bane. When Caleb refused to heal him unless Zannah sent a message to the Jedi, revealing his presence to them, Darovit suggested that Zannah make a deal with him. He thought that Zannah should message the Jedi to let them know of Bane, and that her Master would be arrested, and she could be redeemed. Zannah refused, knowing that Darovit was trying to get her to turn away from the dark side, but Darovit told her it was the only way Caleb would heal Bane, and eventually she agreed. After Caleb healed Bane, Zannah murdered him and used her sorcery to drive Darovit insane. When the Jedi arrived, Zannah had hidden herself and her Master in Caleb's hut in a hidden trap door under a blanket. Meanwhile, Darovit, driven mad by illusions, attacked the Jedi with Valenthyne Farfalla's lightsaber, and was cut down immediately. Since the Jedi believed he was the Sith Lord that Caleb had spoken of, they investigated no further into the matter, and returned to Coruscant with Caleb's remains, never finding Zannah and Bane. As a young boy Somov Rit Darovit had an idealized view of the Jedi, seeing them as great heroes of song and dreamed of being one. He had a protective in supportive side when it came to Zannah, the only person he was seen being friendly with when he was young. Darovit was also angry and resentful, constantly fighting with Hardin and the other children, bitter at the Jedi for he his belief that they deceived him. He was easily swayed to the Sith by the promise of power, despite this he was unwilling to kill his cousin and still tired to protect Zannah from Bane even though he stood no chance against the Dark Lord. After ten years of living on Ruusan with the Bouncers Darovit adopted a peaceful and isolationist view of the galaxy, wanting to be neither Jedi or Sith. Yet he still held some resentment towards the Jedi, sabotaging a monument he believed would only cause harm to the planet. At his core, Darovit was a man who would risk death to try and help those he cared about. He desperately tried to redeem Zannah and believed that there was still good in her, a belief that brought about his death. thumb|right|180px|Darovit wielding Torr Snapit's lightsaber. Darovit was a moderately powerful Force user. After interacting with Darth Bane and his cousin Zannah at the thought bomb site his hand was exploded, but due to his isolation from the galactic society he never was able to get a cybernetic to replace it. Even though he had very little formal training he was still fairly competent. He was able to kill a handful of Jedi soldiers but since a majority of the Army of Light was built up of mostly teenage Force-sensitives with only a month or so of training, this was not a great display of skill. However, it still showed Darovit was capable in the field of battle. It was made clear, however, that he was no match for the Sith'ari Darth Bane, and when he fought the Jedi on Ambria, he was cut down quickly, though this was likely due to his mind having just been broken by Zannah. He was stated to be a good hunter and skilled basic weapon and stick combat. Darovit was strong in the Force. He could use the Force to augment his physical ability to the point where he could keep away from a Jedi Knight for a time. He was able to use basic telekinesis when he was young but rarely used it. He was able to cloak himself from people using the Force and had a knowledge of using flora and making them into weapons like acids and trappings. He became a skilled healer whilst living on Ruusan. The New Essential Chronology, The Dark Forces Saga and Book of Sith: Secrets from the Dark Side identify Darovit as Zannah's brother in spite of Jedi vs. Sith having already established them to be cousins. Rule of Two once misspelled his name Darovti (most likely a typo). Also, during Zannah's Force Choking of him in Rule of Two it is said that his hands clawing at his throat&mdash;even though he only had one hand at the time. *Darth Bane: Path of Destruction *Jedi vs. Sith 1 *Jedi vs. Sith 2 *Jedi vs. Sith 3 *Jedi vs. Sith 4 *Jedi vs. Sith 5 *Jedi vs. Sith 6 *Darth Bane: Rule of Two *Darth Bane: Dynasty of Evil *The New Essential Chronology *Star Wars: The Comics Companion *Jedi vs. Sith: The Essential Guide to the Force *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia *Book of Sith: Secrets from the Dark Side *The Essential Reader's Companion Category:Army of Light members Category:Galactic Republic military personnel Category:Humans Category:Jedi trainees of the Jedi Order Category:Males Category:Redeemed Jedi Category:Sith acolytes and apprentices Category:Somov Rit residents