7696
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Jade%27s_Fire
Jade's Fire
6059

}} The Jade's Fire was a highly modified Personal Luxury Yacht 3000. Originally owned by the industrialist Ja Bardrin and named The Winning Gamble, the ship later belonged to Mara Jade, who named it Jade's Fire. The luxury yacht consisted of a wide fuselage flanked by two engine nacelles. It was painted orange and red in a flame pattern. Jade's Fire featured a remote beckon call. The ship had been upgraded with state-of-the-art weapons tracking systems and a unique shoot-back system that would detect the angle of incoming enemy shots and return fire in that direction. Mara's later ship, the Jade Shadow, also possessed the special firing system. Ja Bardrin arranged to have the ship and his daughter, Sansia, kidnapped so that it could collect sensor data on the defenses of Chay Praysh's headquarters. He then forced Mara Jade to rescue the ship and his daughter, holding the crew of Wild Karrde as hostages. When Sansia learned of her father's involvement in the affair upon her rescue and return home, she gave the ship to Mara Jade to jointly compensate for her rescue from Torpris and annoy her father. It became the first ship that Mara privately owned, free and clear, and she renamed it Jade's Fire. The Jade's Fire, piloted by Mara Jade, joined forces with Lando Calrissian in the Lady Luck (a ship of the same class as Jade's Fire), Han Solo and Leia Organa Solo in the Millennium Falcon, and Luke Skywalker in his enhanced X-wing to battle the Sacorrian Triad fleet in the Battle of Centerpoint Station. The vessel was destroyed over Nirauan during Luke Skywalker and Mara Jade's attempt to infiltrate The Hand of Thrawn. She achieved this by intentionally crashing her ship into the docking bay there. *Ambush at Corellia *Assault at Selonia *Showdown at Centerpoint *Specter of the Past *Vision of the Future *Survivor's Quest *The New Jedi Order: Dark Tide I: Onslaught *The New Jedi Order: Agents of Chaos I: Hero's Trial *The New Jedi Order: Balance Point *Cracken's Threat Dossier *Starships of the Galaxy *The New Essential Guide to Characters *The New Essential Guide to Vehicles and Vessels *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Personal Luxury Yacht 3000s Category:Starships of the New Jedi Order