7668
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Tuknatan
Tuknatan
7675

Tuknatan was a Jedi Master active during the Great Hyperspace War. He was present at a Galactic Senate session in 5000 BBY, where fellow Jedi Master Memit Nadill and Empress Teta of the Koros system warned of the impending return of the Sith. Nadill and Teta's forebodings came true when the Sith attacked Coruscant with a seemingly unstoppable invasion force. Tuknatan, Nadill, and a group of other Jedi fought valiantly in the battle, but it seemed that they had no chance of victory. However, a large portion of the Sith force suddenly disappeared, revealing that they were mere illusions. Taking advantage of the opportunity, Tuknatan led a charge into the heart of the Sith force, and the Galactic Republic won the Battle of Coruscant. Tuknatan, a male member of a brown-furred species, was a Jedi Master active in the years leading up to the Great Hyperspace War. In 5000 BBY, Draethos Jedi Odan-Urr saw a vision of the return of the long-lost Sith and reported it to Jedi Master Memit Nadill and Empress Teta of the Koros system. Alarmed, Nadill, Odan-Urr, and Teta ventured to Coruscant in order to inform the rest of the Galactic Republic in the Galactic Senate. Tuknatan, along with several other members of the Jedi Order, attended this Senate session. Although many of the present Jedi dismissed the forebodings, Tuknatan remained silent on the subject.Tales of the Jedi – The Golden Age of the Sith 4 Odan-Urr's vision proved to be true when the Sith emerged and attacked the world Koros Major just a short time later. Upon the outbreak of the Battle of Koros Major, Memit Nadill flew to Coruscant to warn the Jedi there; Tuknatan was among several Jedi who greeted him at his landing pad. Despite Nadill's warning, however, they were unable to prepare, as just moments after Nadill's arrival Coruscant's invasion alarms sounded, signaling the arrival of the Sith. In the Coruscant skies, a large Sith fleet, consisting of tens of thousands of warships, appeared out of hyperspace. The warships deployed dropships to the surface, containing Sith Massassi warriors and Sith war behemoths. Tuknatan and the other Jedi decided to make a stand on the steps of the Senate Building. Tuknatan and the Republic forces leaped headlong into the fury of the battle, but the Sith force seemed unstoppable and the chances of victory appeared slim. Suddenly, however, a large portion of the Sith force simply disappeared; they were mere illusions. Dark Lord of the Sith Naga Sadow, the commander of the Sith invasion force and the creator of the illusions, had had his concentration broken courtesy of a shot on his Sith Meditation Sphere by his Sith apprentice Gav Daragon, causing his illusions to fade away into nothingness. Emboldened by this turn of events, Tuknatan and the other Jedi charged into the heart of the Sith invasion and fought ferociously, and the Battle of Coruscant was won. Overcome by the elation of the victory, Tuknatan and the Jedi exclaimed that the Republic would never fall.Tales of the Jedi – The Fall of the Sith Empire 4 Tuknatan was a brave and valiant Jedi, one who showed no hesitation in standing and fighting against the Sith, even when victory seemed an unlikely prospect. Tuknatan was ferocious and aggressive while fighting, recommending an all-out counterstrike against the Sith during the Battle of Coruscant. He was a fierce supporter of the Galactic Republic and believed that the Republic would never fall. In battle, rather than using a lightsaber like most other Jedi, Tuknatan simply wielded a gold-colored staff. The character of Tuknatan first appeared in Star Wars: Tales of the Jedi – The Golden Age of the Sith, a story arc in the Star Wars: Tales of the Jedi comic book series, written by Kevin J. Anderson. He appeared briefly in the arc's fourth issue, and reappeared in The Golden Age of the Sith follow-up arc, Tales of the Jedi: The Fall of the Sith Empire, in which he had a more substantial role. In these appearances, Tuknatan was drawn by Dario Carrasco, Jr., and preliminary black-and-white sketches of Tuknatan appear in the back of Golden Age of the Sith first issue.Tales of the Jedi – The Golden Age of the Sith 0 *Tales of the Jedi – The Golden Age of the Sith 4 *Tales of the Jedi – The Fall of the Sith Empire 3 *Tales of the Jedi – The Fall of the Sith Empire 4 *Tales of the Jedi – The Fall of the Sith Empire 5 Category:Individuals of unidentified species Category:Males Category:Pre-Ruusan Jedi Masters