7669
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Rhys_Dallows
Rhys Dallows
20071

***Bravo Squadron **Naboo Resistance *Naboo Resistance |masters= |apprentices= }} Rhys Dallows was a Human male pilot from Naboo. Trained under the ace pilot Essara Till, he was assigned to Bravo Flight briefly before the Invasion of Naboo by the Trade Federation. When Rhys began to develop feelings for Essara, she was killed in only their first mission together by a band of mercenaries employed by the Trade Federation. Dallows himself barely survived the attack but swore to track down Essara's killer and have revenge. He then joined a motley crew consisting of the mercenary Vana Sage, the salvager Reti and the pirate Nym in a vendetta against the Trade Federation. The four pilots headed to the occupied Naboo where they carried out several successful strikes against the Trade Federation. Rhys Dallows eventually joined up with Bravo Flight for the final battle of the conflict. Rhys was tasked to destroy the receiver stations of the Trade Federation droid control ship but the mission turned into a disastrous ambush when the mercenary ship that had killed Essara appeared. Rhys eventually managed to destroy him and flew out just in time before the whole space station exploded from the inside. With the Trade Federation defeated, Rhys Dallows returned to the liberated Naboo as a hero. Decades later, Rhys Dallows joined the Naboo Resistance against the Galactic Empire. Rhys Dallows was born in the outskirts of Theed, the capital city of Naboo. He was raised by his mother, a schoolteacher, as his father, a freighter pilot went missing during a routine mission when Rhys was still a baby. Rhys had inherited his father's piloting talent and could manage well any vehicle, and his mother encouraged him. Despite his father's fate (believed to be captured by pirates), Rhys always dreamed to follow his steps, and protect innocent pilots from the dangers of space. As a young man, Rhys took a job at the Theed Municipal Spaceport as a technician (mechanic’s assistant) before joining the Royal Security Force as a volunteer. It was not long before his talent was discovered, bringing him to the starfighter corps of the Security Forces. He was assigned to Echo Flight, a squadron of N-X Police Cruisers, as Echo Five. Rhys showed an arrogant attitude, taking action whenever he felt his strong sense of justice was violated, to the point of disobeying orders from superiors he didn't respect. As such, he missed many assignments, until he reached his 22 years, older than most of his Flight. In 33 BBY,The Essential Reader's Companion he participated in the disastrous battle at Station TFP-9 under Essara Till as a flight leader. During the battle he made himself noticeable by his superiors of Bravo Flight, talking a lot over the radio, expressing zeal and commenting on their adversaries's stats, pointing out the superiority of their own fighters. When Captain Sorran demanded their surrender, Dallows angrily responded that they do not obey terrorists. When Till regrouped the flight, it was Dallows who reported the casualties, and when she decided to comply with the pirate's demands, Dallows was shocked. He disobeyed, and seeing that Till was making a run against one of the Hornet-class carriers, he joined her; absorbing some fire from its point defense weapons, he added his firepower to hers to bring it down. For the remainder of the battle, he cooperated closely with Till, reporting to her the developments such as Harlaan's death. Seeing that the traitor Melne, pursued by Till's torpedoes, was making a run for his own carrier, Dallows offered to cut him off and took formation with her. They made it between Melne and the carrier, when it launched a dozen missiles against them, including Melne. Since Dallows was pivotal in the battle, he was among the three pilots (along with Evenyl Yob and Keela Egast) that Till recommended to Ric Olié to join the prestigious Bravo Flight to fill Dren's vacant position. Rhys was recruited by Till. thumb|left|Rhys Dallows and Essara Till entering a training canyon in their N-1 starfighters. Rhys Dallows was placed under the tutelage of Essara Till and trained to the N-1 starfighter. He proved a quick learner even though he probably did not read the combat manual cover-to-cover. After passing Essara's tests in her favorite training canyon, he was picked by her to be her wingman in Bravo Flight as Bravo 10 in 32 BBY. Rhys was also assigned a R2-series astromech droid named Wrench. For Rhys Dallows' first mission, Bravo Flight was to protect the Naboo Royal Starship while Queen Amidala attempted to negotiate with the Trade Federation about the Blockade of Naboo. It was supposed to be an easy run, but an attack by several mercenaries flying Dagger-class, MorningStar, and Dianoga-class starfighters forced the rookie space jockey to fight for his life. In the end the Queen escaped, but Rhys' N-1 starfighter was badly damaged and Essara was killed by a late mercenary arrival. thumb|right|280px|Rhys Dallows, Nym, Vana Sage and Reti arrived at the occupied Naboo Fortunately, Rhys was saved by a Toydarian salvager named Reti, who took him to the base of mercenary Vana Sage for a serious overhaul of his fighter. After rescuing Vana from her own prison cell Rhys learned that the Trade Federation was definitely behind the attempt on the Queen's life, and that it was building a Droid Army from a massive factory on Eos. With the aid of Vana, Reti, and the Feeorin pirate captain Nym, the leader of the Lok Revenants and a major grudge against the Federation, he set out to destroy the Eos factory. In addition to Dallows' N-1 starfighter, the three other pilots provided their own vessels for the incoming battles: Nym's Scurrg H-6 prototype bomber Havoc, Vana's starfighter Guardian Mantis, and Reti's light freighter Zoomer. When they reached Eos the team split into two groups: Vana and Nym headed down to hit the foundries while Rhys and Reti lured away the planet's defense squadrons of Scarab-class and Vulture-class droid starfighters with attacks on orbital satellites and Federation freighters. The attack was a success, but Rhys soon learned that the Trade Federation had launched its invasion of Naboo. By the time they had arrived, Naboo had fallen, but a Resistance movement had already begun and Rhys was quick to join-up. Upon arriving in the Naboo system, Rhys and his new allies attacked a Trade Federation convoy and successfully stole its cargo. Rhys then escorted Reti and his load of stolen supplies to a Resistance base, but a Trade Federation army ruined the party and Rhys had to use his N-1 as a ground attack craft inside the tight confines of the canyons&mdash;not something the N-1 was built to do&mdash;to save the base. After this he was assigned to lead a flight of N-1s providing air cover for a group of rescue boats attempting to break-out Naboo citizens from Trade Federation concentration camps. Between the gunboats, turrets, droid starfighters, bombers, and a dropship full of Armored Assault Tanks, it was not easy, but Rhys nevertheless prevailed. thumb|left|300px|Rhys Dallows and [[Anakin Skywalker/Legends|Anakin Skywalker escape the droid control ship just before it explodes.]] After a quick appearance over the main Resistance base to give Nym the breathing room he needed to demolish the huge Federation army attacking the place, Rhys joined-up with the remainder of Bravo Flight for a last-ditch assault on the droid control ship Vuutun Palaa. It was a desperate battle, a few inexperienced Naboo pilots in ships designed for dogfighting against waves upon waves of computerized starfighters and the deadly array of weaponry aboard the enemy command ship. By concentrating on destroying the receiver dish stations needed to launch fighters, Bravo Flight had managed to gain a little room to maneuver when the same mercenary leader who had killed Essara Till appeared on the scene. After a brief battle, the mercenary ducked inside the enemy hangar when the shields were lowered to launch a lander. Bravo Flight followed, but only Rhys was able to get inside before the shields were raised again. Alone, in a tight space, and with all the fighters and tanks yet to embark training their guns on him along with a mercenary planning to finish him off, Rhys' chances were looking pretty slim. Amazingly, he not only survived, but managed to demolish a huge amount of war materiel, kill the mercenary to avenge Essara, and escape the exploding warship courtesy of a few well-placed shots to the vessel's portside power grid. The destruction of the droid control ship resulted in the complete deactivation of the Trade Federation Droid Army on Naboo and in a humiliating defeat for the Trade Federation. thumb|right|280px|Rhys Dallows says farewell to Nym Once the battle for Naboo was concluded, Rhys Dallows returned to his duties with the Royal Naboo Security Forces. Nym earned a pardon from Supreme Chancellor Palpatine for his previous crimes and was offered a position in the RSF,Starfighter: Crossbones 1 as well as Vana Sage. Although Vana agreed to stay on Naboo, Nym soon left to deliver a shipment of supplies to his men. However, the Feeorin did stay long enough to tell Rhys that if he ever got tired of working in paradise, he was welcome to join the Lok Revenants. Rhys Dallows continued to serve the RSF during the next decades. After the Declaration of a New Order, he became a sympathizer of the rebellion against the Galactic Empire, eventually joining the Naboo Resistance and at some point was promoted to the rank of captain. In 1 ABY, during the Galactic Civil War, Captain Dallows recommended a group of Rebel Alliance operatives to Pooja Naberrie, the leader of the Naboo Resistance. Later, he dispatched Officer Turon Adala, one of his subordinate among the RSF and a fellow resistance member, to Pooja Naberrie in the city of Dee'ja Peak in order to ensure security of a secret conference of the Naboo Resistance. 200px|thumb|Rhys Dallows cut depiction from Star Wars Galaxies Rhys Dallows first appeared in "The Starfighter Trap," a short story published in the first issue of Star Wars Gamer in November 2000. The short story was an introduction to the 2001 video game Star Wars: Starfighter in which Rhys Dallows was one of the three main protagonists. In the game, Dallows was voiced by Darren Scott. Cut dialogue files in Star Wars: Jedi Starfighter reveal that Rhys Dallows and his wingmen from Bravo Flight were at one point going to join the space battle over Geonosis in the final mission "The Jedi Master", as part of Nym's reinforcements. Darren Scott would have reprised his role as well.Star Wars: Jedi Starfighter Rhys Dallows was mentioned in the 2003 video game Star Wars Galaxies, a massively multiplayer online role-playing game developed by Sony Online Entertainment and published by LucasArts, prior to its closure on December 15, 2011. Rhys Dallows was intended to appear in the game as a non-player character but was cut from the final game. Nevertheless, an emulated depiction pulled from this character's Interchange File Format reveals what he would have looked like if he was added to the game. Captain Rhys Dallows would have been present on Naboo as a preclude to additional quests given by Senator Pooja Naberrie. He was intended to propose four quests to Rebel players: kill a bounty hunter, destroy a warehouse, escort RSF Captain Meiro Wellightner, and kill a storm commando. The existence of these quests was indirectly mentioned in the game by Pooja Naberrie. *Star Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds *Star Wars: Starfighter *Starfighter: Crossbones 1 *Star Wars: Starfighter: Prima's Official Strategy Guide *Star Wars Galaxies: An Empire Divided: Prima's Official Strategy Guide *Star Wars Galaxies: Jump to Lightspeed: Prima Official Game Guide *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia *Galaxy of Intrigue Category:Aces Category:Cut content from Star Wars Galaxies Category:Freedom fighters Category:Humans Category:Males Category:Naboo Category:Naboo resistance members Category:Naboo Royal Space Fighter Corp Category:Royal Naboo Security Forces personnel