7702
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Vor%27Na%27Tu
Vor'Na'Tu
5812

The Vor'Na'Tu was an ancient Jedi artifact. Echuu Shen-Jon took the Vor'Na'Tu' with him into exile on Krant. In 1 BBY, it was discovered by the Galactic Empire and taken to Geddes. Shen-Jon joined with the Rebel Alliance to recover the artifact. Shen-Jon was forced to destroy it to keep it out of the hands of Darth Vader, but lost his life in the process. Years later, Leia Organa received a vision from Shen-Jon, directing her to return to the terraformed Hanoon to destroy the shards. She went with her brother, the Jedi Luke Skywalker to destroy the remnants of the Vor'Na'Tu. The Vor'Na'Tu was a Jedi artifact. The Jedi Master Echuu Shen-Jon held the Vor'Na'Tu in secret during his self-imposed exile on Krant. For over twenty years the Jedi Master hid the powerful crystal until around 0.5 ABY, when the Bothan spy Utric Sandov informed Leia Organa that an Imperial landing force managed to recover the artifact. With the assistance of a group of Rebel Alliance and Wookiee warriors whom he met on Krant, Shen-Jon led an assault on the moon Geddes where the Imperial forces had hid the Vor'Na'Tu. After destroying the Sith Temple guarding the crystal, Shen-Jon attempted to flee, but was cut down by Darth Vader, who was sent to retrieve the artifact for his master, Emperor Palpatine. Shen-Jon, fearing the results of the Vor'Na'Tu falling into the Emperor's hands, shattered the item into four pieces, rendering it useless to Vader before Shen-Jon succumbed to his wounds. His sacrifice allowed the Rebels to escape Vader. Years later, as Geddes was terraformed and colonized as Hanoon, the colonists found the shards and held them as valuable relics in their cities. However, Shen-Jon's spirit still worried about its potential power. In 6 ABY, he warned Organa, and a New Republic task force led by her and Luke Skywalker returned to the asteroid to retrieve the shards. Skywalker succeeded in securing the shards from the settlements, and the artifact was ground to dust and scattered to the solar winds. The Vor'Na'Tu first appeared in the Rebel Alliance campaign in the 2001 video game Star Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds. Its 2002 expansion pack featured the original game's campaign, with enhancements. The Vor'Na'Tu shares the same model as the other game holocrons. The artifact was also mentioned in the 2005 reference book, The New Essential Chronology. *Star Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds *Star Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds: Clone Campaigns *Star Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds: Prima's Official Strategy Guide *The New Essential Chronology *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Jedi artifacts