7720
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Pellaeon%E2%80%93Gavrisom_Treaty
Pellaeon–Gavrisom Treaty
11432

The Pellaeon&ndash;Gavrisom Treaty was a significant treaty between the New Republic and the Imperial Remnant in 19 ABY. Its signing effectively formalized the end of the Galactic Civil War and permitted peaceful coexistence between the New Republic and Imperial Remnant. The New Republic's Chief of State Ponc Gavrisom and the Imperial Remnant's Supreme Commander Fleet Admiral Gilad Pellaeon signed the treaty, with Mon Mothma notable in attendance. The Imperial Remnant had been driven back to the the Outer Rim by the New Republic, after five relatively peaceful years, which purposed the cessation of hostilities, resulting in the ending of conflict between the Republic and Remnant, and opening up trade and commerce with both states and putting forth limitations on smuggling, while permitting systems in each side to choose their alignment. In the years following the Battle of Endor, Galactic Empire and New Republic forces engaged in several temporary, localized alliances against mutual threats. 4 ABY saw the Bakura Truce against the Ssi-ruukThe Truce at Bakura and the Battle of Saijo against the Tofs,Star Wars (1977) 107 and 7 ABY saw the Battle of Vahaba against the forces of Zsinj.X-Wing: Solo Command The first tentative plan for comprehensive peace between the New Republic and Imperial Remnant was proposed by Imperial Admiral Betl Oxtroe to the New Republic Provisional Council in 7 ABY. Oxtroe's proposal would appoint Emperor Palpatine's 11-year old grand-niece Ederlathh Pallopides as the titular Empress, with the former New Republic councilors holding effective power. Although the New Republic was eager to negotiate, the secret talks soon ended when Oxtroe was assassinated, apparently by Noghri under the direction of Grand Admiral Thrawn.Dark Empire Sourcebook A truce between the Imperial Remnant and the New Republic was also proposed to Pellaeon in 13 ABY by Baron Ragez D'Asta and his daughter, Feena D'Asta, as the cost of their bringing the D'Astan sector back into the Empire. Pellaeon dispatched Feena D'Asta and Zam Basdor to negotiate with Mirith Sinn and Kir Kanos of the New Republic, but the meeting was disrupted by the Restored Empire faction who succeeded in killing D'Asta.Crimson Empire III: Empire Lost 5 In 17 ABY, after five relatively peaceful years, Imperial systems near the Hydian Way began to suggest the cessation of hostilities. The New Republic Senate was favorable and proposed an amnesty for former Imperials within the Republic as a peace overture. Fearing an invasion, the Council of Moffs secretly contacted Admiral Natasi Daala, who had unified the replacement warlords, and proposed a campaign against the New Republic. The campaign was disastrous for the Imperial Military and the Imperial Space was reduced to eight remote sectors in the Outer Rim.The Essential Atlas thumb|left|The Sinister Triumvirate. The final treaty was the brainchild of Pellaeon who, after acknowledging the impossibility of an honorable victory over the New Republic, proposed it to the Council of Moffs, select officers of the Imperial Starfleet, and other officials who, for the most part, grudgingly agreed. Vilim Disra, Moff of the Braxant sector, though openly siding with Pellaeon, chose to side with Imperial Guardsman Grodin Tierce and a con-artist named Flim to take advantage of the Caamas Document Crisis in order to nearly bring both the Republic and the Empire into separate internal civil wars. Pellaeon and Leia Organa Solo engaged in preliminary talks aboard the Millennium Falcon in the Pesitiin system before Pellaeon returned to Bastion. Fifteen days after Disra was detained by Pellaeon at Bastion, Gavrisom and Pellaeon signed the treaty aboard the Imperial I-class Star Destroyer Chimaera. thumb|right|The signature of the treaty. The treaty put an end to the Galactic Civil War and opened the Imperial Remnant to trade and commerce with the New Republic. Additionally, it put forth limitations on smuggling for both governments to enforce. In addition, systems in either faction would be allowed to choose their alignment. The treaty also banned the use of cloaking devices. *Specter of the Past *Specter of the Past abridged audiobook *Vision of the Future *Vision of the Future abridged audiobook *Survivor's Quest *Survivor's Quest abridged audiobook *The New Jedi Order: Dark Tide I: Onslaught *The New Jedi Order: Dark Tide I: Onslaught abridged audiobook *The New Jedi Order: Agents of Chaos I: Hero's Trial *The New Jedi Order: Agents of Chaos I: Hero's Trial abridged audiobook *The New Jedi Order: Agents of Chaos II: Jedi Eclipse *The New Jedi Order: Agents of Chaos II: Jedi Eclipse abridged audiobook *The New Jedi Order: Edge of Victory II: Rebirth *The New Jedi Order: Edge of Victory II: Rebirth abridged audiobook *The New Jedi Order: Force Heretic I: Remnant *The New Jedi Order: Force Heretic I: Remnant abridged audiobook *The New Jedi Order: The Unifying Force *The New Jedi Order: The Unifying Force abridged audiobook *Legacy of the Force: Exile *Legacy of the Force: Exile abridged audiobook *The Essential Chronology *The New Essential Chronology *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia *The Essential Atlas *The Essential Guide to Warfare Category:Events of the Galactic Civil War Category:Imperial Remnant laws and acts Category:New Republic laws and acts Category:Treaties