8175
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Yo%27gand
Yo'gand
6924

Yo'gand was a legendary Warmaster and the first Supreme Overlord of the Yuuzhan Vong. Yo'gand was a male member of the Yuuzhan Vong species, a race of previously docile humanoids who had repulsed a machine empire from their ancestral homeworld and subsequently embarked on a centuries long conflict known as the Cremlevian War. Clans and tribes of Yuuzhan Vong battled one another across the galaxy, vying for primacy. Yo'gand fought in the war, earning the rank of general. He came to be revered as a mighty warrior,The New Jedi Order Sourcebook fighting rival tribes on the frontlines.The New Jedi Order: Vector Prime Eventually, Yo'gand became a warmaster, leading the warriors of his clan into battle. There came a moment in the war when the forces of Yo'gand were competing directly with those of Steng for dominance of the galaxy.The New Jedi Order: Destiny's Way A rival warmaster, Steng had situated his forces on the planet Ygziir, where many of the leaders of the most powerful tribe in opposition to Yo'gand were present. In order to eliminate his enemies, Yo'gand made use of an innovative tactic. He infiltrated a powerful dovin basal&mdash;a Yuuzhan Vong creature capable of manipulating gravity&mdash;on to the surface of Ygziir. The dovin basal was subsequently tasked with focusing the planet's gravitic field onto a moon of Ygziir. Once the moon had been ensnared by the dovin basal's gravitic manipulation, it was dragged down toward Ygziir, impacting directly upon Steng's encampment. Ygziir was left a shattered hulk following the collision, which wiped out the opposition leaders. Steng's flesh was carefully preserved to be worn by the Supreme Overlords of the Yuuzhan Vong. Yo'gand was the first to claim the rank officially, although the Cremlevian War had been motivated at times by the pretensions of would-be Supreme Overlords. With the Yuuzhan Vong finally united in the ruins of their galaxy, they embarked on a journey into the Intergalactic Void in such of a new home, traveling aboard planet-sized worldships for millennia. Credited with unifying the Yuuzhan Vong, Yo'gand entered into legend as a skilled and redoubtable warrior. Such was Yo'gand's reputation that the eyes of Yun-Harla, the mysterious Yuuzhan Vong Goddess of Trickery, were said to be the only remaining parts of Yo'gand. In the minds of Yuuzhan Vong warriors, Yo'gand represented the pinnacle of martial prowess and achievement.The New Jedi Order: The Unifying Force During their millennia long trek across the intergalactic void, the Yuuzhan Vong eventually descended once more into disunity. Rivalry among domains and castes led to the fraying of Yuuzhan Vong society to an extent. Although scouting missions led to the conclusion that a new galaxy had been discovered, the worldships eventually began to deteriorate, leading to further discontentment aboard the worldships. Factions contended and betrayed one another for the favor of Supreme Overlord Quoreal, until Shimrra, the figurehead of Domain Jamaane, usurped and killed Quoreal in 29 BBY. As when Yo'gand had defeated Steng, unity was restored to the Yuuzhan Vong following the death of Quoreal. The invasion of the galaxy commenced in 25 ABY. Yo'gand's Core was successfully applied by Prefect Da'Gara during the Yuuzhan Vong War, using it to destroy the planet Sernpidal. Kalarba was also destroyed by the tactic. In the text of Galactic Federation of Free Alliances' history, compiled millennia after Yo'gand's life, he was described as the Supreme Overlord of the Yuuzhan Vong at the time of his defeat of Steng. Voren Na'al, the historian who compiled the document, erred in his description, as Yo'gand was a warmaster during the Cremlevian War, only assuming the position of Supreme Overlord following its denouement. Yo'gand did not receive an individual entry in The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia, published in 2008, although he was mentioned in the entries for the Cremlevian War, Steng, Ygziir and Yo'gand's Core. *The New Jedi Order: Vector Prime *The New Jedi Order: Vector Prime abridged audiobook *The New Jedi Order: Destiny's Way *The New Jedi Order: Destiny's Way abridged audiobook *The New Jedi Order: The Unifying Force *The New Jedi Order: The Unifying Force abridged audiobook *The New Jedi Order Sourcebook *The New Essential Chronology Category:Males Category:Supreme Overlords Category:Yuuzhan Vong Warmasters