8115
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Randa_Besadii_Diori
Randa Besadii Diori
4315

Randa Besadii Diori was a Hutt spice merchant who defected to the New Republic during the Yuuzhan Vong War. During that time, his parent Borga Besadii Diori was pregnant with Randa's sibling while defending Nal Hutta with only half of the clan's support. Due to the invasion, Randa was small for his age. Randa was originally selected as a liaison for the Hutts and the Yuuzhan Vong in their slaving activities. He arrived to help oversee the slaves placed aboard the Crèche, a clustership. Wurth Skidder, a Jedi Knight, attempted to convince the yammosk that Randa was planning to assassinate Chine-kal, the Commander of the vessel, but the plan failed. When it was learned that the Hutts had betrayed the Yuuzhan Vong, Chine-kal slated Randa for execution, but Master Kyp Durron and Ganner Rhysode managed to rescue Randa at Skidder's request, and he helped them destroy the yammosk. Unable to return to Nal Hutta, Randa fled to Duro, where the New Republic had established its SELCORE operations following the Yuuzhan Vong conquest of his homeworld. He attempted to secure his own safety, and at one point unwittingly revealed himself again as a traitor to the Yuuzhan Vong when he informed the senator of Kuat, Viqi Shesh, that there were Yuuzhan Vong spies operating in the biodomes. Shesh herself was a traitor and merely passed the information on to her superiors. When the Yuuzhan Vong invaded Duro itself, Randa was one of the first to be captured alongside Administrator Leia Organa Solo. During an attempt to reach the mining laser and kill himself along with several of the enemy, Randa was apprehended. He failed since Leia had coded the laser to her voiceprint. Later, when Warmaster Tsavong Lah tried to sacrifice Leia to the Slayer God Yun-Yammka, Randa lashed out at the Warmaster with his enormous tail, knocking out several guards. Unfortunately for Randa, Priestess Vaecta threw a tkun at the Hutt, which she used to strangle him. The Warmaster and Nom Anor then ordered their troops to take the body of Randa to the kitchens for studying. thumb|Commissioned drawing of Randa by R. K. Post. R. K. Post was commissioned to draw Randa for The New Jedi Order Sourcebook, but the image was cut from the final version. *The New Jedi Order: Agents of Chaos II: Jedi Eclipse *The New Jedi Order: Balance Point *The New Jedi Order: Edge of Victory II: Rebirth *The New Jedi Order Sourcebook *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Besadii kajidic Category:Hutts Category:Males Category:Yuuzhan Vong collaborators