8203
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Myles
Myles
10840

|height= |mass= |hair= |feathers= |eyes= |skin= |cyber= |families= |parents= |partners= |siblings= |children= |affiliation=True Mandalorians |masters= |apprentices= }} Myles was a Mandalorian shock trooper and Mandalorian Supercommando of the True Mandalorians led by Jango Fett. In 44 BBY, he participated in an attack led by Fett on a rebel group on the world of Galidraan for the governor of Galidraan. In exchange, the governor agreed to share information on the True Mandalorian's enemy, Tor Vizsla, leader of the Death Watch Mandalorian splinter group. After defeating the rebels, Myles returned to the Mandalorians' camp while Fett confronted the governor. Fett was then betrayed by the governor and was attacked by Vizsla and his Mandalorian warriors. The governor also reported the True Mandalorians to the Jedi Order, falsely claiming they had murdered women and children. When the Jedi task force arrived, Fett reunited with the True Mandalorians and attacked the Force-sensitive Jedi Knights. During the battle, Myles was slain by a long-haired Jedi. The task force proceeded to kill the rest of Fett's warriors, leaving him as the sole survivor. thumb|right|300px|Myles (right) defeated the Galidraanian rebels with the True Mandalorians. Myles was a Mandalorian Supercommando establishes that members of the True Mandalorians were Mandalorian Supercommandos. and Mandalorian shock trooper who was part of the True Mandalorians, a group loyal to Mandalore Jaster Mereel after the Mandalorians fractured into Mereel's group and the Death Watch led by Tor VizslaJango Fett: Open Seasons 1 in 60 BBY.The New Essential Chronology After Mereel was killed by VizslaJango Fett: Open Seasons 2 in 52 BBY,Jango Fett: Open Seasons 2 dates the death of Jaster Mereel to thirty years before the Battle of Geonosis, which occurred in 22 BBY. Therefore, Mereel must have died in 52 BBY. Jango Fett took his place as leader of the True Mandalorians. In 44 BBY, Fett led the True Mandalorians to Galidraan in order to perform a job for the governor of Galidraan in exchange for Vizsla's location. They were tasked with eliminating a rebel group that threatened the governor's reign on the world. The True Mandalorians set up a camp and then traveled to the rebels' location utilizing their jetpacks. Arriving at their holdout, the Mandalorian warriors attacked the political activists and swiftly killed them all. Fett requested a report from Myles, to which he informed that all opposition had been neutralized. Jango Fett then ordered Myles and the rest of the True Mandalorians to return to their camp, as he was going to confront the governor about their exchange. Unbeknownst to Fett and his followers, the governor had sided with Vizsla and requested assistance from the Jedi Order, informing them that the Mandalorians had slaughtered political activists. Soon after Fett encountered the governor, he was attacked by Vizsla's Death Watch and had his jetpack and communications damaged during his escape. Fett attempted to warn Myles about the incoming Jedi, but the shock trooper was met with static and asked Fett to repeat. He attempted a final time to order Myles to evacuate the camp but received no reply. thumb|left|300px|Myles attacks the Jedi before being cut down Landing in Consular-class light cruisers, the Jedi Knights confronted the Mandalorians. The leader of the task force, Jedi Master Dooku, introduced himself and asked for their surrender, promising fair treatment. Dooku's Padawan Komari Vosa then spoke up, telling the Mandalorians that if they fought back, that the Jedi would deliver swift justice. Fett commanded his Mandalorians to open fire on the Jedi. Myles and the other soldiers immediately began attacking the Knights. Having their blasters deflected by the Jedi's lightsabers, Fett ordered the Mandalorians to switch to projectile-based weaponry instead. Myles fired a missile from his wrist rocket launcher alongside the other warriors. The Jedi then attacked the Mandalorians, cutting them down with their swords. Attempting to provide cover for Fett, Myles shot into the air with his jetpack and fired more missiles before a long-haired Jedi leaped into the sky and bisected the shock trooper, letting his body fall beside Fett. Eventually, the task force had struck down every warrior aside from Fett, who had killed several Jedi in turn, including Myles' killer. Fett then surrendered to the remaining Jedi, who handed him over to the governor of Galidraan, forcing the Mandalorian into slavery. Years later in 32 BBY, Jango Fett met with Dooku&mdash;now known as Darth Tyranus&mdash;at the latter's castle on the moon of Kohlma to discuss using Fett as the genetic template for the clone troopers to be created by the Kaminoan cloners. Fett initially shared distrust in Dooku, having been the leader of the Jedi responsible for the death of his men, including Myles. Eventually, he accepted the former Jedi's offer.Jango Fett: Open Seasons 4 Myles was a humanoid True Mandalorian and follower of Jango Fett. He reported to Fett and followed orders directed to him. A Mandalorian, he was skilled with a Z-6 jetpack and Mandalorian weaponry for ranged combat. Myles donned silver and blue Mandalorian armor, distinguishing himself from Fett's red armor and the rest of the True Mandalorian's green armor. His shoulder guards were yellow, and the left guard featured a blue symbol of a Mythosaur skull. He also wielded a blaster rifle that fired orange lasers. His gauntlet was capable of firing missiles. Myles first appeared in the third issue of the Star Wars: Jango Fett: Open Seasons comic miniseries, written by Haden Blackman, penciled by Ramón F. Bachs, and published by Marvel Comics on July 31, 2002. *Jango Fett: Open Seasons 3 *Jango Fett: Open Seasons 4 *Order 66: A Republic Commando Novel *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Individuals of unspecified gender Category:Individuals of unspecified species Category:Individuals with he/him pronouns Category:True Mandalorians