8297
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Electric_Judgment
Electric Judgment
13997

Electric Judgment, also known as Emerald Lightning, was a light side Force technique used to spray electric bolts of variable intensity from the hands and fingers. At one time, it was classified as a forbidden Force power within the Jedi Order; however, some Jedi such as Plo Koon, Luke Skywalker, and Jacen Solo practiced it. Electric Judgment,Star Wars: Episode I Jedi Power Battles: Prima's Official Strategy Guide also known as Emerald Lightning, was a Force power used by the Jedi to spray electric bolts of variable intensity from the hands and fingers. It manifested as yellow-orange,Star Wars: Episode I Jedi Power Battles green,The New Jedi Order: The Unifying Force white,Champions of the Force or golden lightningCrucible often instead of blueDark Force Rising Sourcebook but otherwise it was very similar in both appearance and usage to the dark side Force power known as Force lightning. One common difference between the Jedi's use of Electric Judgment and the Sith's use of Force lightning was that the Jedi's application came from a sense of determined justice. However, on at least one occasion this light side power was channeled using a Jedi's anger.The New Jedi Order: Destiny's Way Like Force lightning, it had to be channeled through living flesh, and could be used lethally, but often it was used to stun or knock opponents unconscious. The energies of Electric Judgment could be contained in a kinetite, a ball of pure kinetic force. The lightning of Ashla could also be used as a shield against attack, or unleashed as chain lightning. Electric Judgment could be blocked by the use of a sufficiently powerful protection bubble.Star Wars: Force and Destiny Core Rulebook As a form of Force lightning, this power could strike, and thus stun or kill Yuuzhan Vong despite their nature as being considered absent from the Force. Among the Jedi Order, this Force ability was uncommon and controversial due to its association with anger and aggression and its similarity to Force lightning. It was even featured on Jedi Seer Sabla-Mandibu's list of "Forbidden Force Techniques" and classified as prohibited to Jedi Knights. A few Jedi Masters such as Plo Koon, however, did study the technique under controlled conditions, a practice that had been occurring since at least 990 BBY. During Exar Kun's physical last stand and defeat, the Jedi Order massed against him and by pooling the power of the whole order, conjured a shield of light while raining down large lightning bolts on him, even as Kun tried to ascend to a more powerful form. The clash of darkness and light ravaged the planet and halted Kun's ambitions.Tales of the Jedi – The Sith War 6 When the Separatists rose up, some Jedi such as those who were champions or warriors of the light, utilized this Force power.Star Wars: Clone Wars Adventures Yoda was practitioner, employing it during the Clone Wars,Star Wars: The Clone Wars: Who Are the Jedi? to burn away a dark reflection of himself with a touch, and against the Sith.Star Wars: Episode III Revenge of the Sith During a mission to capture the criminal known as Dreed Pommel, Plo Koon confronted him at a suite in the city of Ektra, on Metellos. Pommel had taken a young girl hostage after killing her entire family. During this encounter, Koon let out a barrage of lightning at Pommel's head that disarmed him, and then a second burst of lightning that knocked him unconscious. He immediately reported this incident to the Jedi Council and stated that he had not felt any anger or fear as he let out the blast of Force lightning but was indeed calm and in control of his emotions, nor was he tempted to kill his opponent once he had subdued the criminal. Therefore, he was able to conclude he was acting according to the will of the Force. The Council asked him to contemplate whether he felt it was wrong of him to have utilized its power during the mission and whether he would use it again. After much meditation, Koon concluded that it would be wrong of him to ignore its power, as Claria Labreezle's survival showed, and that he should develop it into a useful technique. As requested by the Council, he recorded his experiences with the Force lightning that he dubbed "Electric Judgment" on the Great Holocron. Koon gained a reputation as an expert in this power, in his continued study of it. Darth Vader utilized the kinetite technique, akin to this power, on Mimban, while in close proximity to the Kaiburr crystalThe Rise and Fall of Darth Vader as he attempted to subdue Luke Skywalker.Splinter of the Mind's Eye In 11 ABY, on Yavin 4, when Luke Skywalker’s students found the strength and understanding for a final showdown with the Sith Lord who had been oppressing them, the first class of the New Jedi Order used the light side to sear Exar Kun with lightning while simultaneously caging him with light and wind, defeating his spirit and saving their master. Anakin Solo used Electric Judgment when he was consumed by the light side of the Force just before his death, with streams of lightning arcing from his limbs into his enemies.The New Jedi Order: Star by Star While fighting on Ebaq 9, Jacen Solo struck multiple targets at once with the power, similar to the refinement of Force lightning known as Force Storm.Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic He later used this power as a shield of electricity against enemy lightning during the reconquest of Coruscant. Grand Master Luke Skywalker used this power aboard Shimrra's Citadel during the battle against Shimrra Jamaane in 29 ABY to save his niece and nephew from the Slayers; his powerful version sent sparks of green lighting coruscating over the body of a Slayer, instantly killing him and causing his body to convulse. However, even this attack of the Grandmaster's could be resisted by someone skilled in Tutaminis, as shown when Abeloth was able to resist it with no harm more severe than being pushed back slightly when Skywalker used it against her in 44 ABY.Fate of the Jedi: Vortex In 45 ABY, Luke Skywalker, along with his sister, Leia Organa Solo, used this power while within a monolith to weave shells of defensive golden lightning. Jaden Korr used this power against Alpha in 41 ABY.Riptide Later in 41 ABY, upon seeing a hologram of Jaden Korr defending himself with this power, Darth Wyyrlok claimed that this power was conjured out of fear and implied Jaden was tempted by the dark side. It is not clear if this was an accurate assessment, as Wyyrlok mistakenly believed that what he saw was just a variant of dark side lightning. thumb|right|200px|Plo Koon uses a yellow-orange version in Star Wars: Episode I Jedi Power Battles. This Force power first appeared in the novel Champions of the Force. In the non-canonical video game Star Wars: Super Bombad Racing, Jedi Grandmaster Yoda can fire this power out of his staff against enemies such as Darth Maul.Star Wars: Super Bombad Racing *Tales of the Jedi – The Sith War 2 *Tales of the Jedi – The Sith War 4 *Tales of the Jedi – The Sith War 5 *Tales of the Jedi – The Sith War 6 *Darth Plagueis *Star Wars: Episode I Jedi Power Battles *Star Wars: Clone Wars Adventures *Star Wars: Revenge of the Sith novelization *Coruscant Nights II: Street of Shadows *Champions of the Force *The New Jedi Order: Star by Star *The New Jedi Order: Destiny's Way *The New Jedi Order: The Unifying Force *Dark Nest III: The Swarm War *Crosscurrent *Riptide *Fate of the Jedi: Vortex *Crucible *Star Wars: Super Bombad Racing *Star Wars: Episode I Jedi Power Battles: Prima's Official Strategy Guide *The New Essential Guide to Characters *Star Wars - Das offizielle Magazin 40 *Jedi vs. Sith: The Essential Guide to the Force *The Jedi Path: A Manual for Students of the Force *Star Wars: The Clone Wars: Who Are the Jedi? *Star Wars: Force and Destiny Core Rulebook Category:Alter powers Category:Light side powers