8346
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Mon_Julpa
Mon Julpa
5302

Mon Julpa was the rightful Crown Prince, later King of Tammuz-an during the reign of the Galactic Empire. thumb|left|180px|Mon Julpa disguised as a droid with [[Jann Tosh and R2-D2]] Zatec-Cha, a Tammuz-an vizier, brainwashed Mon, stripped him of his rule and his memory, and had his agents disguise him as an android. He was sold to Jann Tosh, a young miner on Tyne's Horky, who discovered he was a living being. Despite the negative first reactions of his uncle Gundy, Mon worked with zeal in the mines. They nicknamed him "Kez-Iban," a Bocce word which means "he who has returned from death." Sollag of Tammuz-an sought his prince and eventually found him and gave him back his royal scepter. Mon Julpa's memory was restored, and he returned with Tosh and his droids to Tammuz-an in order to claim the throne that was rightfully his. After many adventures, he presented the scepter to the Keeper of the Tower at the time of the first sun of the equinox and became King of Tammuz-an. Julpa, after disposing of Zatec-Cha, began his efforts for uniting the two warring cultures on Tammuz-an. He approached Lord Toda of the Outer Territories to seal a treaty of peace. When pirate Gir Kybo Ren-Cha captured Toda's daughter, Princess Gerin, for ransom and took her to one of the moons of Bogden, Toda and Julpa united forces to get her back. Julpa and Gerin became lovers, while Julpa and Toda became friends, uniting Tammuz-an at last. Under the name Kez Iban, Mon Julpa was released as an action figure in 1985 as part of Kenner's Star Wars Droids line. These action figures were size-compatible with the other Kenner Star Wars action figures, but design-wise, they represented a different toy line. A second figure listed under the name, Mon Julpa, was prototyped and came very near to the production stage, but was never released. Mon Julpa was voiced by Chris Wiggins. *The Lost Prince: A Droid Adventure *The Pirates of Tarnoonga: A Droid Adventure *A Guide to the Star Wars Universe, Second Edition, Revised and Expanded *The Essential Guide to Characters *Star Wars: The Action Figure Archive *Star Wars Encyclopedia *C-3PO: Tales of the Golden Droid *A Guide to the Star Wars Universe, Third Edition, Revised and Expanded *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia *Star Wars: 1,000 Collectibles }} Category:Kings Category:Tammuz-an