8782
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Jrade_Plaza
Jrade Plaza
6666

|terrain= |fauna= |flora= |interest= |affiliation= }} Jrade Plaza was located in the Jrade District in Galactic City on the planetThe Essential Atlas Coruscant. It was capable of holding thousands of spectators and, during the time of the Galactic Republic, contained the Chancellery Walkway, which was lined with monuments and memorials to the most influential Supreme Chancellors. In 23 BBY,HoloNet News Vol. 531 #45 takes place on 13:2:28, which corresponds to 23 BBY per the reasoning here. an exclusive gala fundraiser was held in Jrade Plaza, where Representative Jar Jar Binks tucked a tablecloth into his cummerbund, as he had observed Senator Orn Free Taa do so on numerous occasions. Binks' exaggerated conversational gestures led him to knock a tray of canapés out of a waiter's hands. When the representative dived for them, he accidentally pulled the tablecloth and destroyed a priceless and intricate ice statue crafted by sculptor Kime Enanrum, leading the plaza to appear as though it had been snowing for hours afterwards. The incident was reported the following day in the 13:2:28 issue of the HoloNet News CoCo District Edition. Jrade Plaza was first mentioned in HoloNet News Vol. 531 #45, an in-universe issue of the HoloNet News written by Pablo Hidalgo and Paul Ens and published on the HoloNet News website in 2002. thumb|right|250px|A memorial for Finis Valorum was placed inside Jrade Plaza, which had its canonicity status affected by later sources. The plaza was later mentioned in "Republic HoloNet News Core Edition 15:01:13," an in-universe news report also written by Hidalgo and published in the seventy-third issue of the Star Wars Insider magazine on December 26, 2003. The report covers the unveiling of a memorial for the recently deceased former Supreme Chancellor Finis Valorum in 21 BBY. places the unveiling of the Finis Valorum Memorial on 15:01:13, which corresponds to 21 BBY per the reasoning here. Valorum was later shown to still be alive by 20 BBY places the events of "The Lost One" in 20 BBY. in "The Lost One," an episode of the sixth season of Star Wars: The Clone Wars that first aired on March 1, 2014. rendering the canonicity of his death according to the HoloNet News article within the Star Wars Legends continuity uncertain. In the report, the Finis Valorum Memorial was approved and planned for the Chancellery Walkway in Jrade Plaza following Valorum's death in the terrorist attack of 14:9:19. The plaza was shut down to the public for several weeks over security concerns, which delayed the unveiling. The memorial eventually opened to a small crowd of 200 spectators, which was reported on in the HoloNet News Core Edition. Category:Coruscant public spaces Category:Plazas