8842
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Dor_Gal-ram
Dor Gal-ram
8779

Dor Gal-ram was a Sith Lord in the years leading up to the Great Hyperspace War, 5,000 years before the Battle of Yavin. A member of the Sith species, Gal-ram was native to an area of space known as the Sith Empire. After the death of Dark Lord of the Sith Marka Ragnos, Gal-ram sided with one of the contenders for the title, Ludo Kressh. Kressh's main rival was Naga Sadow, a progressive Sith Lord with expansionist ambitions. In 5,000 BBY, Sadow staged an attack on the Sith Empire, meant to appear like a Galactic Republic assault, and used this opportunity to declare himself the new Dark Lord of the Sith. This led to a schism between Sadow and Kressh, with Gal-ram siding with Kressh. Sadow then staged another raid, this time leaving evidence that he was actually complicit; upon seeing this evidence, an angered Kressh ordered Gal-ram and a fellow supporter, Horak-mul, to gather their forces to attack Sadow. In the ensuing clash at Khar Delba, Gal-ram and his allies were outwitted and defeated by Sadow. Gal-ram, along with Horak-mul, was killed in the battle when Sadow ordered the crew of Gal-ram's flagship to betray and kill him. thumb|left|180px|Gal-ram wearing his battle helmet Dor Gal-ram was a male of the Sith species and a Sith Lord in the years leading up to the Great Hyperspace War of 5000 BBY. He was native to a region of space in the galaxy known as the Sith Empire. Sometime during his life, Gal-ram created a number of tablets alongside fellow Sith Horak-mul. In 5,000 BBY, Dark Lord of the Sith Marka Ragnos died after a century of iron-handed rule. After Ragnos' death, two Sith Lords, Naga Sadow and Ludo Kressh, stepped in to try and fill the power vacuum.Tales of the Jedi – The Golden Age of the Sith 2 Gal-ram supported Kressh, the more conservative Sith Lord, over Sadow, a progressive with expansionist ambitions. Around this time, the arrival of two Humans in the Sith Empire from the Galactic Republic, Gav and Jori Daragon, opened up a conflict between Sadow and Kressh, who disagreed on how to deal with the Daragons. Finally, Sadow staged an attack on the Sith Empire, which was made to look like a Republic assault, riling the Sith into a frenzy. During a meeting on the planet of Ziost after the raid, Sadow declared himself the new Dark Lord of the Sith. Gal-ram watched on in silence as the majority of other Sith Lords voiced their support of Sadow. An outraged Kressh called his remaining supporters to rally around him, and Gal-ram left the meeting with the Sith Lord.Tales of the Jedi – The Golden Age of the Sith 3 After the meeting, Sadow staged another false Republic attack on a hangar on Ziost, which contained the Daragons' ship, the Starbreaker 12, and stole the vessel. Upon arriving at the hangar, Kressh, found Sadow's emblem amidst the carnage. Shocked and angry, Kressh summoned Gal-ram and another of his supporters, the one-eyed Sith Lord Horak-mul, to his chambers on Rhelg to confer on these developments. There, Kressh informed them of Sadow's complicity in the attack and ordered Gal-ram and Horak-mul to gather their fleets so as to stage a surprise attack on Sadow. Gal-ram did as he was told, massing his forces and joining Kressh's and Horak-mul's fleets at Khar Delba, the site of Sadow's citadel. They commenced their attack, launching a rain of laser fire onto Sadow's base. However, Sadow had prepared for the battle and had hidden his fleet in orbit around Khar Delba's moon, Khar Shian. Sadow's fleet attacked and caught Gal-ram and his allies off-guard, and Sadow then moved on to the next stage of his plan: ordering the Massassi crew of Gal-ram's flagship&mdash;who were, in reality, Sadow'een, assassins under Sadow's command&mdash;to kill him. Gal-ram was preoccupied with the battle and the Massassi crew caught him unawares, murdering him. Horak-mul was killed in the same manner, and Kressh was defeated in the Battle of Khar Delba. Dor Gal-ram was a staunch supporter of Ludo Kressh over Naga Sadow, but, knowing the dangers of speaking out against the new Dark Lord of the Sith, he kept his alignment secret. Gal-ram feared that meeting with Kressh on Rhelg following Sadow's theft of the Daragons' starship was an unnecessary risk, but he still rallied with Kressh against Sadow. Dor Gal-ram first appeared in Star Wars: Tales of the Jedi – The Golden Age of the Sith, a story arc of the Star Wars: Tales of the Jedi comic series, which was written by Kevin J. Anderson and released in 1996. Gal-ram first appeared in a non-speaking role in the arc's third issue, The Fabric of an Empire. His role would later be expanded in the fourth issue, Pawns of a Sith Lord, and the fifth issue, The Flight of Starbreaker 12. in which his character was killed. In these appearances, Gal-ram was illustrated by Dario Carrasco, Jr. In 2008, Gal-ram was given an entry in The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia. *Tales of the Jedi – The Golden Age of the Sith 3 *Tales of the Jedi – The Golden Age of the Sith 4 *Tales of the Jedi – The Golden Age of the Sith 5 *Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic *Star Wars: The Old Republic *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Males Category:Sith Councilors Category:Sith species