9146
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Force_Harvester
Force Harvester
5584

An ancient Sith artifact that served as a power source for the Dark Reaper superweapon, the Force Harvester was a large swirling globe that produced a destructive form of purple energy that drained the living force from anyone it came in contact with within a small area, producing a concentrated form of dark side energy that would be used to power the Dark Reaper. However, it could not harvest a wound in the Force. When in use, the Harvester also radiated a bright purple glow. It was originally a device created by Exar Kun to operate the Dark Reaper during the Old Sith Wars, however, the Jedi Knight Ulic Qel-Droma found a way to it and clues about the Reaper and the Harvester were scattered across the galaxy. For thousands of years, the Force Harvester lay hidden beneath the piles of intergalactic debris on the garbage world of Raxus Prime. During the Clone Wars, the Confederacy of Independent Systems uncovered the device and escaped the planet with it shortly before the Conquest of Raxus Prime. The Force Harvester was brought to the moon of Alaris Prime, located in the Kashyyyk system, to test on the Wookiee tribes that resided there. Anakin Skywalker and Bera Kazan escaped the Harvester on a stolen STAP and called in Republic forces to stop the Harvester. This did not stop the Dark Reaper crisis however, for Count Dooku had escaped with the Harvester and used it on other worlds such as Mon Calamari, Agamar, and Bakura. Once filled with enough energy, Count Dooku traveled to the moon of the distant planet of Thule. There it was attached to the underbelly of the Dark Reaper, and after thousands of years, the ancient Sith weapon was operational yet again. During the Battle of Thule, the Harvester was targeted by Anakin Skywalker during the final encounter with the Dark Reaper. The Harvester fell to his blasterfire, which caused the Reaper to collapse. *Star Wars: The Clone Wars video game *Boba Fett: Crossfire *Star Wars: The Clone Wars: Prima's Official Strategy Guide *Geonosis and the Outer Rim Worlds *The New Essential Chronology *Jedi vs. Sith: The Essential Guide to the Force *Knights of the Old Republic Campaign Guide *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia *The Essential Atlas *Book of Sith: Secrets from the Dark Side *The Essential Reader's Companion Category:1st-century BBY archaeological discoveries Category:Confederacy military Category:Sith weapons Category:Superweapons