9363
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Oseon_2795
Oseon 2795
16508

Oseon 2795 was a mining asteroid located in the Oseon system, a part of the Outer Rim Territories' Centrality sector. Situated close to its sun, the asteroid seemed hot to its occupants, a poor colony of miners, despite the presence of adequate air-conditioning and life support systems. In 3 BBY, the Sorcerer of Tund Rokur Gepta and Governor Duttes Mer of the Rafa system sent the anthropologist Osuno Whett to Oseon 2795 to find a spacer who could be manipulated into retrieving for Gepta and Mer the Mindharp artifact of the Rafa system. Whett found his mark in the gambler and freighter captain Lando Calrissian, who was playing a game of sabacc with Whett, local miners Vett Fori and Arun Feb, and corrupt Oseon Peacekeeper Constable T. Lund Phuna. During the game, Whett enticed Calrissian into traveling to the Rafa system, which the gambler did when Phuna attempted to frame him for cheating, forcing the former to flee the Oseon system. thumb|left|300px|Oseon 2795 was situated in the Oseon system. Oseon 2795 was a minimal-gravity iron-nickel asteroid and planetoid located in the Oseon system. It was situated in the Centrality sector, a part of the Slice portion of the Outer Rim Territories. Along with the rest of the Oseon system, Oseon 2795 was connected by the Falko Run hyperlane to the Arleen system, while the hyperspace route known as the Cadma Conduit linked it to the Erilnar system and the Cadma sector's Dagelin Minor and Simbarc systems. Oseon 2795 orbited the Oseon sun closer than most asteroids in the Oseon system. Due to Oseon 2795's proximity to its energetic sun, its sere, withered surface was bombarded by a constant flux of radiation that seemed to Lando Calrissian, a visitor to the asteroid, to penetrate into its interior. The rooms situated in the inner portions of the asteroid seemed uncomfortably hot despite air-conditioning and life support systems,Star Wars Encyclopedia which were as thoughtful as those of any of the other orbital bodies of the Oseon system. Calrissian found that the heat&mdash;the real or imagined nature of which Calrissian was not certain about&mdash;seemed to impede the mental processes of his fellow players of the sabacc card game. thumb|right|300px|Rokur Gepta planned to manipulate a spacer found on Oseon 2795 into retrieving the Mindharp artifact for him. By the time of the reign of the Galactic Empire, the Sorcerer of Tund Rokur Gepta became interested in obtaining the legendary Mindharp artifact, a product of the formerly technologically-advanced Sharu species of the Rafa system. Gepta partnered in his efforts to obtain the Mindharp with the system's governor, Duttes Mer, and the pair hired the anthropologist Ottdefa Osuno Whett to investigate the Mindharp-related legends of the Toka, the primitive remnants of the Sharu civilization. Once Whett's investigations were complete, Gepta and Mer, aware that the Toka folklore prophesied that the Mindharp would be discovered by a stranger to the Toka who was a spacer accompanied by a silver-armored non-humanoid being, dispatched the Ottdefa to Oseon 2795 in return for the offer of a new job. On the asteroid, where Gepta and Mer had the cooperation of the local law enforcement personnel, Whett was to find an unlucky freighter captain. Whett then had to entice the spacer with the ownership of his valuable droid, Vuffi Raa, as well as stories about the Treasure of Rafa&mdash;a collection of material valuables that was supposedly stored inside the abandoned monumental structures left behind in the Rafa system by the disappeared Sharu culture&mdash;into traveling to the Rafa system so that Gepta and Mer could then use the unwitting individual in order to gain access to the Mindharp. Whett carried out his mission to Oseon 2795 under the pretense&mdash;as confirmed by his entry documents&mdash;of studying the life of the poor local miners in contrast to the rest of the wealthy Oseon system. The Ottdefa presence on the asteroid bewildered Vett Fori, chief supervisor of the local mining operation, since the miners had not hired an anthropologist. Instead, Whett's studies were supposedly financed by an Imperial grant. thumb|left|300px|Lando Calrissian entered a game of sabacc on Oseon 2795. Around the same time, in 3 BBY,The Essential Reader's Companion dates the The Lando Calrissian Adventures trilogy, of which Lando Calrissian and the Mindharp of Sharu is the first installment, to between 3 BBY and 2 BBY. Lando Calrissian, a gambler and the captain of the freighter Millennium Falcon, planned to travel to the Dela system in order to play cards. Being only a novice ship-handler, however, he became intimidated by the prospects of both the complicated route to the system and the reputedly tricky planetary landing that had to be performed there. Instead, Calrissian took advice from a spaceport attendant and traveled to Oseon 2795, although he encountered landing difficulties at the asteroid as well.The Essential Chronology On Oseon 2795, Calrissian entered a game of sabacc with Whett; Fori; Arun Feb, Fori's assistant; and corrupt Constable T. Lund Phuna of the Oseon Peacekeepers,Lando Calrissian and the Flamewind of Oseon who had been tasked by Gepta and Mer to cause a situation where Calrissian had to flee the system&mdash;preferably for the Rafa system. Due to the heat experienced by the beings in the small room, the local players soon stripped to shorts and shirt-sleeves and the majority of the quintet were drinking ice water. Two hours into the game, Calrissian had had little luck, and his meager winnings made him muse that he would be forced to drain the charge from his electric shaver into the energy storage system of the Millennium Falcon just so that the ship could lift off Oseon 2795, of which the gambler thought as a "Core-forsaken" planetoid. At one point during the game, Whett name-dropped the Treasure of Rafa, leading to a conversation about it among the players. As a result, Calrissian began to consider traveling to the Rafa system. The prospect of the relatively easy journey there, coupled with the allure of the idea of the treasure, re-kindled Calrissian's enthusiasm for the ongoing card game, with the asteroid's heat intruding less on his senses as a result. thumb|right|300px|Lando Calrissian won the droid Vuffi Raa in the Oseon 2795 sabacc game. Mindful of his prior troubles with landing on the asteroid and realizing he could use a pilot droid to help travel to and perform a planetary landing in the Rafa system, Calrissian then allowed Whett to bet his droid on the game. When Calrissian won the sabacc hand and Whett revealed that, instead of being on Oseon 2795, the droid was, in fact, located on the planet Rafa IV, the gambler became angry and considered using his concealed pistol on the anthropologist before realizing that&mdash;given that the laws of the Oseon system forbade carrying lethal weapons&mdash;he could end up imprisoned or killed on the asteroid as a result. At that moment, Phuna planted a cheater device on Calrissian and then pretended to discover it. The enraged Whett used Oseon 2795's negligible gravity to lunge at the gambler but was knocked out by Feb, who had noticed Phuna planting the cheater. Trusting her assistant's judgment, Fori then rendered Phuna unconscious as well and instructed Calrissian to take his winnings and Whett's documents concerning his droid and leave the Oseon system. Within twenty minutes of leaving the room, Calrissian rented&mdash;in return for a substantial deposit&mdash;and bolted down in the cockpit of his ship a Class Five pilot droid, and ten minutes later, he departed the Oseon system for the Rafa system. Months later, after Calrissian had indeed been manipulated by Gepta and Mer into retrieving the Mindharp, Mer, while gloating over his capture of the captain, explained to him how the trap at Oseon 2795 had been set up. Calrissian's visit to the asteroid was eventually recorded in a 25 ABY galactic history chronicle by the Historical Council of the New Republic. Unlike the rest of the wealthy asteroid settlements of the Oseon system, Oseon 2795 was a poor colony of primarily hardrock miners, with the Rafa system's governor Duttes Mer characterizing the entirety of the asteroid's population as being unlucky. According to Lando Calrissian's observations, all the miners of Oseon 2795 were of small height, with the gambler speculating that compactness of the body was a virtue among the local population. thumb|right|200px|Oseon 2795 was introduced in Lando Calrissian and the Mindharp of Sharu. Oseon 2795 served as the opening setting for Lando Calrissian and the Mindharp of Sharu, the 1983 first entry in The Lando Calrissian Adventures trilogy of novels by L. Neil Smith. "Twinkle, Twinkle Little Star, How I Wonder Where We Are," a 1990 roleplaying game source article published in the thirteenth issue of the Voyages SF magazine, placed the Oseon system, and therefore Oseon 2795, in the Zebitrope sector. Since that article was released outside of the Lucas Licensing process, it was considered non-canonical with respect to the Star Wars Legends continuity.The 2009 reference book The Essential Atlas subsequently overrode the Voyages SF 13 placement by establishing that the Oseon system was instead situated in grid square T-8 as part of the Centrality. *Lando Calrissian and the Mindharp of Sharu *Star Wars Encyclopedia *The Essential Chronology *A Guide to the Star Wars Universe, Third Edition, Revised and Expanded Category:Mining asteroids Category:Oseon system locations Category:Planetoids in the Outer Rim Territories Category:Planetoids in the Slice