9391
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Dia
Dia
13254

Dia was a Human female who lived on the planet Taris during the Jedi Civil War between the Galactic Republic and the Sith Empire. She worked as a waitress at Javyar's Cantina, located in Taris's Lower City. While employed at the cantina, Dia was harassed by a drunk man named Holdan, who worked for the Exchange's local crime lord, Davik Kang. In retaliation, Dia struck Holdan with a vibroblade, injuring and humiliating him. Holdan responded by putting a bounty on Dia's head at the bounty office run by Zax the Hutt, another of Kang's associates. Dia was forced into hiding in an Upper City apartment, where she lost touch with the outside world. Revan, a former Sith Lord whose memories had been lost, arrived on Taris and met Dia in her apartment. Dia was convinced to tell Revan her situation, and Revan agreed to help remove the bounty. Revan later encountered Holdan in Javyar's Cantina, where he persuaded him to remove the bounty. Revan returned to Dia, informing her of his success, and she was able to come out of hiding. thumb|left|200px|Holdan, an associate of Davik Kang, drunkenly assaulted Dia. Dia lived on the Outer Rim planet of Taris during the Jedi Civil War between the Galactic Republic and the Sith Empire. She was relatively poor and worked as a waitress at Javyar's Cantina in the Lower City of the ecumenopolis. During Dia's employment at the cantina, she encountered Holdan, a human maleGame files from Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic establish Holdan as having a male head model. who worked for Davik Kang, the local crime lord for the criminal organization known as the Exchange. Holdan became drunk and attempted to force himself on Dia as she worked. She loudly spurned Holdan's advances and defended herself with a vibroblade, nearly killing him. Holdan received a scar from the confrontation and was humiliated in front of the people attending the cantina with him. Out of anger and in an attempt to maintain his reputation, Holdan put out an illegal bounty of three hundred credits on Dia at a bounty office, located within the same cantina, that was owned by Zax the Hutt, another associate of Kang and the Exchange. thumb|right|320px|Dia was forced to hide out in her Upper City apartment. Dia was forced to end her employment as a waitress and fled to the planet's Upper City and went into hiding. She eventually found an apartment in the run-down South Apartments ring, amongst illegal aliens forced to live there by Taris's speciesist laws. Because of Holdan's connections to Kang and the Exchange, the local authorities turned a blind eye. She barely made enough credits to survive, and thus was unable to pay off the three hundred credit bounty herself. Too afraid for her life to leave the apartment, Dia soon lost touch with the political affairs of the outside world. In 3956 BBY,The Essential Atlas places the events of Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic, which includes Revan's interactions with Dia and the Sith quarantine of Taris, in 3956 BBY. following a battle above the planet between the Republic Hammerhead-class cruiser Endar Spire and a Sith fleet, several Republic escape pods crashed onto the surface. One of these pods contained the Republic war hero Carth Onasi and the former Dark Lord of the Sith Revan, whose memories were replaced with those of a loyal Republic soldier. Revan and Onasi took refuge in the Upper City's South Apartments, attempting to stay out of sight of the Sith, who had imposed a planet-wide quarantine on Taris in an attempt to caputre Jedi Padawan Basitla Shan, another survivor of the battle hose battle meditation ability made her an important part of the Republic's war effort. The duo's hideout was next door to Dia's apartment, which was kept locked. Revan found his way through her locked door and approached Dia, who was surprised and berated him for bursting in. Despite his apologies, she remained upset, though she noted he was more polite than Holdan. Revan asked about Holdan, but Dia hesitated to give much information, as she didn't trust him. However, Revan was able to convince Dia to tell the full story, and she explained her plight to him. Revan offered to help remove the bounty, and though Dia doubted he could, she directed him to Javyar's Cantina, where Holdan enjoyed spending time. Dia wished Revan luck on talking sense into Holdan, but was unable to answer Revan's other questions, as she had been sheltered inside her apartment. Revan found and confronted Holdan at Javyar's Cantina. Though Holdan was reluctant to remove the bounty, wishing to save his reputation, Revan and his party were able to convince him otherwise. Holdan went to the bounty office called off the bounty with Zax the Hutt, who was also an associate of Davik Kang. Revan returned to Dia's apartment to tell her of his success. Upon hearing the news, she was overjoyed and thanked him profusely. While she didn't have much, Dia offered to reward Revan with an Energy projecter, used to upgrade melee weapons, which was family heirloom. However, Revan refused the reward, claiming that helping her was all the thanks he needed. The woman offered a final goodbye and thanks to Revan, and was able to come out of hiding. Dia was a light-skinned Human female with black hair and brown eyes. When Dia received a bounty on her head, she believed the most sensible course was to hide away in her apartment, refusing to risk leaving the complex. Though this was motivated by fear, when attacked or faced with unavoidable danger, she believed in&mdash;and was capable of&mdash;making a brave stand to prove she was not as defenseless as she seemed. She could be defiant and did not shy away from criticizing the misdeeds of others, such as burglary or harassment. Dia wore a green tunic with a gray undertunic and gray pants. She also had brown knee length boots, dark brown gloves, and a metallic utility belt with several pouches. She wore her hair in a ponytail secured with a brown tie. During her work as a waitress, she carried a vibroblade on her person, which she used against Holdan. Dia first appears as a non-player character in the 2003 video game Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic, released by BioWare. Player interactions with her are optional, though her dialogue can start the "Dia's Bounty" side quest. This quest may be fulfilled in several ways, changing the players alignment accordingly. In order to start the quest, the player must pass a persuasion check or threaten Dia. Alternatively, the player may refuse or avoid the quest entirely. The 2008 reference book The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia confirms that Revan completed the quest, stating that Revan convinced Holdan to remove the bounty. If the player speaks to Dia while dressed in Sith armor, she expresses annoyance with the Sith patrols, and tells Revan that he will find nothing in her apartment. There are three ways to convince Holdan to drop the bounty and receive light side points. The player can pay him two hundred credits to cancel the bounty or persuade him to cancel without paying. If Bastila Shan is in the party during the confrontation, she will use Force persuasion to have him withdraw the bounty should the player fail to convince Holdan. If the player has Dia's bounty removed, she will offer the player an Energy projector. The player can either accept it or either refuse and obtain more light side points. The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia does not specify which of these options was taken. In an alternative dark side option, the player can kill Dia to claim the bounty. If Carth Onasi is in the party, he objects to the act, giving the player chance to reconsider the choice. The player may decide to spare her or proceed with the attack. If Dia is killed, the player can collect a three hundred credit bounty from Zax in the Lower City. The player may persuade Zax to raise the reward to four hundred credits. *Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic *Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic: Prima's Official Strategy Guide Category:Females Category:Humans Category:Individuals with she/her pronouns Category:Tarisians Category:Waiters