9369
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Oseon_5792
Oseon 5792
39470

|moons= |routes=*Cadma Conduit *Falko Run |lengthday= |lengthyear= |class= |diameter=Around 15 kilometers |atmosphere= |climate= |gravity=*Artificial gravity *None in Bohhuah Mutdah's personal library |terrain=*Groves *Rolling lawns |water=Small lakes |interest=*Bohhuah Mutdah's personal library *Gardens *Spaceport *Surface mansion complex |flora=*Grass *Thorn tree |fauna= |otherlife= |species= |otherspecies=Various, including Humans |socialgroup= |language=Galactic Basic Standard |government= |population= |demonym= |cities= |imports=Library items |exports= |affiliation=Bohhuah Mutdah }} Oseon 5792, also known as Asteroid 5792, was a fifteen-kilometer-wide asteroid located in the Oseon system of the Outer Rim Territories' Centrality sector. It served as the private estate of the trillionaire industrialist Bohhuah Mutdah, and it had a set of domed gardens on its surface. At the center of the asteroid, a chamber housed Mutdah's large collection of library items. Sometime between 3 BBY and 2 BBY, the Sorcerer of Tund Rokur Gepta planned to exact vengeance upon his nemesis, the gambler and freighter captain Lando Calrissian. Gepta arranged for Calrissian to be invited to play a game of sabacc on the asteroid Oseon 6845, where he was eventually placed under arrest. Gepta also made it so that a Galactic Empire arrest order was issued for Mutdah, and pressured the Administrator Senior of the Oseon system to force Calrissian to participate in a corresponding sting operation on Oseon 5792. Calrissian; his droid copilot, Vuffi Raa; and the law enforcement officers Bassi Vobah and Waywa Fybot then all traveled to Oseon 5792 aboard Calrissian's freighter, the Millennium Falcon. On the asteroid, Calrissian delivered a shipment of the illegal drug lesai to what he thought was Mutdah but was in reality a disguised Gepta. When Vobah attempted to place Gepta under arrest, Fybot&mdash;who had secretly been working for Mutdah&mdash;killed his fellow officer, following which Gepta in turn executed Fybot himself. The sorcerer then revealed his true identity to Calrissian and subsequently tortured him. Calrissian was saved when the Renatasian Confederation, a group that was targeting Vuffi Raa and had followed the Millennium Falcon to Oseon 5792, attacked the asteroid. Calrissian used the distraction to escape and returned to the Falcon and departed the asteroid. Gepta also escaped from Oseon 5792 before the Renatasian Confederation hurtled a heavy cruiser hyperdrive engine at the asteroid, thereby destroying the worldlet. thumb|left|300px|Oseon 5792 was located in the Oseon system. Oseon 5792, also referred to as Asteroid 5792,The New Essential Chronology was an asteroid located in the Oseon system, a part of the Centrality sector in the Slice portion of the Outer Rim Territories. Along with the rest of the Oseon system, Oseon 5792 was connected by the Falko Run hyperlane to the Arleen system, while the hyperspace route known as the Cadma Conduit linked it to the Erilnar system and the Cadma sector's Dagelin Minor and Simbarc systems. Also classified as a planetoid, Oseon 5792 was a part of the Fifth Belt, one of the seven wide bands of asteroids that constituted the Oseon system and orbited its sun. The asteroid was registered in a catalog listing the Oseon system's orbital bodies and was situated close to a flock of asteroids that were also well cataloged and easily identifiable. Oseon 5792 had the shape of a flattened disk, being approximately fifteen kilometers in diameter but less than three in thickness. The asteroid's negligible gravity was insufficient for maintaining a breathable atmosphere, necessitating the use of artificial gravity for that purpose. In Oseon 5792's core, the gravitic pull was altogether nonexistent. Once every local year, Oseon 5792, along with every other orbital body in the Oseon system, was affected by a phenomenon known as the Flamewind. Caused by the flares of the Oseon sun tearing excited vapor from the closest asteroids, the Flamewind manifested itself as fluorescent and multi-colored bands of ionized gas millions of kilometers both long and wide that continuously shifted across the entire spectrum of visible light. Accompanying the visual display were frequent static discharges between the system's asteroids and a constant barrage of radiation and particles, such as electrons. As a result, navigational, sensor, and life-support equipment was damaged, electronic communications between the asteroids and with the rest of the galaxy were made impossible, and the perception and behavior of sentient beings who were not protected by adequate shielding was affected. thumb|right|300px|Rokur Gepta sought vengeance upon Lando Calrissian (pictured). By 3 BBY,The Essential Reader's Companion dates the events of The Lando Calrissian Adventures novel trilogy, including Lando Calrissian and the Flamewind of Oseon, between 3 BBY and 2 BBY. Oseon 5792 had been inhabited for several decades. The asteroid was the private property of Bohhuah Mutdah, a retired trillionaire industrialist and the wealthiest individual in the Oseon system, and it was the most luxurious of all the system's asteroid residences. At some point between 3 BBY and 2 BBY, the sorcerer Rokur Gepta planned to exact vengeance upon the gambler and freighter captain Lando Calrissian. To that end, Gepta arranged for Calrissian to be invited to play the sabacc card game on the asteroid Oseon 6845. One night on Oseon 6845, the gambler was ambushed by a member of the Renatasian ConfederationThe Essential Reader's Companion&mdash;a group devoted to exacting vengeance upon Calrissian's droid copilot, Vuffi Raa, whom it wrongfully held responsible for the subjugation of the Renatasia system by the Galactic Empire. Acting in self-defense, Calrissian killed the Renatasian and was subsequently placed under arrest. Around that time, Gepta arrived at Oseon 6845 on his personal cruiser, the Wennis, in pursuit of Calrissian. Gepta arranged for Imperial authorities to order the arrest of Mutdah, and subsequently, the Imperial undercover narcotics agent Waywa Fybot was dispatched to the Oseon system to apprehend the trillionaire. thumb|left|300px|Imprisoned on Oseon 6845 (pictured), Lando Calrissian was forced to participate in a sting operation on Oseon 5792. Eventually, Lob Doluff, the Administrator Senior of the Oseon system, had Calrissian brought over from the local prison cell to his office, where the former explained that, in lieu of the traditional Oseoni capital punishment for carrying a weapon, Calrissian would be forced to participate in a sting operation. The gambler was to transport Fybot and Oseon Peacekeeper Captain Bassi Vobah in his starship, the Millennium Falcon, to Oseon 5792&mdash;a trip that would normally only take slightly more than two hours but was at that point extremely hazardous due to the Flamewind phenomenon that had commenced in the Oseon system. At his destination, Calrissian was to pose as a courier delivering Mutdah his scheduled supply of lesai&mdash;an illegal drug that was shipped annually to Mutdah under the cover of the Flamewind&mdash;allowing the two law enforcement officers to arrest the trillionaire. In addition, Doluff, correctly suspecting Fybot of having been secretly ordered to kill Mutdah, explicitly ordered the agent to bring the industrialist back from Oseon 5792 to stand trial. The Administrator Senior also warned Vobah that she would be expected to leave the Oseon system directly from Oseon 5792 if she caused any unnecessary trouble for Calrissian. thumb|right|300px|The Millennium Falcon, in which Lando Calrissian traveled to Oseon 5792 The following day, the Millennium Falcon, with both Fybot and Vobah aboard, left Oseon 6845, with Calrissian and Vuffi Raa being forced to engage on a pre-programmed course to Oseon 5792 due to the Flamewind affecting their ship's instrumentation. Eventually, Gepta, too, boarded his personal starfighter and departed Oseon 6845 for Oseon 5792, leaving the Wennis behind and instructing the vessel to rendezvous with him in the Tund system after the Flamewind had passed. The squadron of starfighters making up the Renatasian Confederation, which had followed the Falcon from Oseon 6845, eventually caught up with the freighter and attacked it, which forced Calrissian to disengage his ship's computer-controlled pre-programmed flight toward Oseon 5792 in order to perform evasive maneuvers. The Falcon then briefly hid in a deep crevasse on a small asteroid. Calrissian and Vuffi Raa made an unsuccessful attempt to discern from the Falcon radiation-damaged navigation computer the asteroid's exact location in the Oseon system. When the droid informed Calrissian of his similarly useless knowledge about the asteroid from the system's astronomical catalog, the captain, assuming that the catalog would have entries on asteroids in Oseon 5792's vicinity, decided that they would simply follow the pre-programmed course to Oseon 5792 as if they had not deviated from it due to the skirmish against the Renatasians and then attempt to correct for the error as they arrived closer to the target asteroid. When Calrissian was later discussing with Vobah and Fybot his suspicions that one of them had attempted to kill him while he had been repairing the Falcon, the gambler attempted to order that the two law enforcement officers handcuff themselves together for the duration of the voyage to Oseon 5792. At that moment, Vuffi Raa interrupted the conversation by summoning the captain to the ship's bridge, for the Renatasian squadron had arrived in the vicinity of the Falcon hiding place. Calrissian then enacted a plan that allowed the Falcon to evade the starfighters while leaving the refuge of the asteroid and continuing traveling toward Oseon 5792. thumb|left|300px|On Oseon 5792, Rokur Gepta (pictured) murdered Bohhuah Mutdah and assumed his identity. While the Falcon was still en route to Oseon 5792, Mutdah was observing a performance being carried out on a lawn in front of his mansion complex on the asteroid. More than three hundred individuals of various species, hired by Mutdah expressly for the performance, progressed through every exceedingly obscene permutation of activity possible for them, following the trillionaire's detailed instructions in doing so. Mutdah himself, due to his attitude of boredom toward life in general, was not impressed by either the performance or the colorful displays of the Flamewind visible through the dome that enclosed the garden that the mansion was situated in. Around the same time, while waiting for Calrissian to arrive on Oseon 5792, Gepta had entered hiding in a place of stifling concealment that isolated him from his pet. Eventually, the sorcerer, who was adept at crafting illusions, murdered Mutdah and assumed his appearance. Eventually, at the end of its pre-programmed course, the Millennium Falcon arrived in the relative vicinity of Oseon 5792. While the ship was still at a much greater distance from the asteroid than the range of the most popular starship detection systems, Calrissian made Fybot and Vobah hide themselves under the freighter's corridor decking as part of the preparations for their mission to arrest Mutdah. At a point where Vuffi Raa thought he could see Oseon 5792 in the form of a large blob against the starfield, the gambler also checked his vacuum suit and one of his stingbeam pistols as well as the package of lesai he was to deliver to Mutdah. Nearly twenty hours after the point at which Calrissian had been expected by Mutdah to arrive at Oseon 5792, when the Falcon had drifted to a distance of approximately hundred kilometers from the trillionaire's asteroid, the vessel was hailed by a cruising picket ship. The ship ordered the Falcon to stop for an inspection, but after Calrissian provided a secret password given to him, the gambler's vessel was provided with instructions for landing on Oseon 5792&mdash;a task which Calrissian, being both a relatively inexperienced ship-handler and nervous about the upcoming mission, delegated to Vuffi Raa. thumb|right|300px|Lando Calrissian around the time of his visit to Oseon 5792 After the freighter made a gentle landing at Oseon 5792's spaceport&mdash;which, despite appearing from an altitude of several kilometers to be a bustling facility, was by that point devoid of the presence of any organic or mechanical beings&mdash;Calrissian, while finishing suiting up, told Vuffi Raa that, considering the fact that he could potentially not return from the mission, he had logged the droid's manumission into the Falcon memory system and also made him his legal heir. In return, Calrissian's copilot plainly made it known to him that, despite his master's orders to stay at the ship and depart the asteroid if the gambler did not return within eight hours' time, he would instead attempt to find Calrissian first. Calrissian then made Vobah, who was still concealed in the ship's corridor, turn over the sabacc winnings that had been confiscated from him after his arrest on Oseon 6845. After hiding the money aboard the Falcon, Calrissian stepped out onto the spaceport's landing pad, from which he was rapidly escorted by a pair of security guards to an elevator leading into the asteroid's interior. At the end of the ride, during which the gambler made an unsuccessful attempt at conversation with the guards, Calrissian was led into Mutdah's personal library, where he met Gepta&mdash;still disguised as Mutdah. The security guards made Calrissian surrender his concealed pistols, after which the captain was allowed to exchange the shipment of lesai for the corresponding payment. At that moment, Vobah and Fybot, who had also left the Falcon and arrived at the center of Oseon 5792, used a directional charge to blow up the library's door, killing the two guards in the process. Vobah then proclaimed that "Mutdah" was being placed under arrest, at which point Gepta gave a signal to Fybot&mdash;who was secretly working for whom he believed was still the trillionaire&mdash;causing the narcotics agent to promptly shoot Vobah dead. Fybot then gave a report to Gepta on the events leading up to the arrest attempt, also noting his belief from before he had made an unsuccessful murder attempt on Calrissian during the voyage from Oseon 6845 that he would be able to use by himself the Millennium Falcon in order to complete the trip to Oseon 5792. Gepta then, no longer seeing Fybot as a useful asset, used a tiny concealed pistol of his own to execute the agent. Inviting the gambler to light a pair of high-quality cigars for them both, Gepta then forced Calrissian to handcuff himself via pair of force shackles and finally revealed his true identity and form to his captive. thumb|left|300px|On Oseon 5792, Lando Calrissian was tortured by Rokur Gepta. Subsequently, both Gepta and Calrissian moved from the library at Oseon 5792's center to the domed garden in which Mutdah had previously watched his performance. The performers were no longer present, and Calrissian, lacking any recollection of traveling from the library, had been cuffed to an upended table in the lawn. Gloating over his capture of Calrissian, Gepta subjected the gambler to the illusion technique known as torture by chagrin. The technique aimed to induce agony in the latter by forced him to re-experience distorted memories from his life involving shame, humiliation, and fear. Approximately half an hour into the torture session, Gepta also revealed to Calrissian how he had adversely affected the gambler's life while plotting against him since before the latter had arrived in the Oseon system. At that point, the Renatasian Confederation squadron, which had also arrived at Oseon 5792, began attacking the dome Gepta and Calrissian were in, eventually breaching it. Gepta then struggled against the pull of the resultant wind caused by the escaping atmosphere, and Calrissian used the distraction to free one of his hands from the force shackles and then jam a tinklewood rod he had brought along in his vacuum suit into Gepta's eye. The injured sorcerer was subsequently swept away by an intense breeze. thumb|right|300px|The Renatasian Confederation attacked Oseon 5792 while targeting Vuffi Raa (pictured). As Calrissian fully liberated himself from his restraints, he encountered one of Vuffi Raa's autonomous tentacle-like limbs that had been disconnected from the droid's main body&mdash;located in the Millennium Falcon cockpit&mdash;and sent to look for the captain. After the gambler briefly inspected the electronic equipment Gepta had used to assist with his illusion-casting, the pair, with Vuffi Raa's tentacle showing the way, quickly entered Mutdah's mansion, which was deserted at that point, and boarded an elevator that took them to the spaceport on Oseon 5792's other side. At the same time, the Renatasian Confederation continued their assault on the asteroid, causing it to shake and shudder as a result of the attacks. At the spaceport, Calrissian and Vuffi Raa's appendage both squeezed through the halfway-stuck door of the building containing the elevator entrance. Only a fraction of a second later, the structure was destroyed as the Renatasian fighters carried out a bombing run on the spaceport. The captain and his droid boarded the Falcon and rapidly departed Oseon 5792, with Calrissian fighting off a pair of Renatasian craft by using the ship's quad laser cannons. Gepta, who ultimately lost his pet on the asteroid, also left aboard his personal fighter, heading to the rendezvous with the Wennis. thumb|left|300px|Lando Calrissian eventually recounted his experiences on Oseon 5792 in a memoir. The remaining fighters of the Renatasian Confederation, unaware that their quarry had already departed the asteroid and intent to eliminate Vuffi Raa at any cost, then slung the Dreadnaught-class heavy cruiser hyperdrive engine they had collectively been using for faster-than-light travel at Oseon 5792. The resultant explosion, which briefly outshone even the still-ongoing Flamewind, destroyed the asteroid, although both the Falcon and the fighter of Klyn Shanga, leader of the Renatasian squadron, outran both the fireball and the ensuing shower of debris. The Falcon subsequently recovered Shanga from his wrecked fighter before departing the Oseon system. In 22 ABY, Calrissian briefly recounted his experiences on Oseon 5792 in his memoir, How to Succeed in Everything, with the corresponding excerpt later being included in Jedi historian Tionne Solusar's 40 ABY compendium, Jedi vs. Sith: The Essential Guide to the Force. Calrissian's visit to the asteroid was also recorded in a 25 ABY galactic history chronicle by the Historical Council of the New RepublicThe Essential Chronology as well as its 36 ABY updated edition by the Council's incarnation under the Galactic Federation of Free Alliances. By 27 ABY, establishes that Ema Slake's estate was the most luxurious of the Oseon system asteroid habitats thirty years after the destruction of Oseon 5792, which&mdash;since The Essential Reader's Companion dates the events of Lando Calrissian and the Flamewind of Oseon, including that event, to between 3 BBY and 2 BBY&mdash;translates to some point by 27 ABY. Oseon 5792's former status as the most lavish of the Oseon system asteroid residences had instead come to apply to the estate of the galaxy-renowned singer Ema Slake on the asteroid Oseon 5631. Oseon 5792 served as the private estate of Bohhuah Mutdah. An obese Human weighing more than three hundred kilograms, he wore a large Rafa life-crystal, a type of crystal that extended humanoid lifespans, and had reached the age of more than one hundred years by the time of his death. At that point, Mutdah had also not entered a genuine planetary gravitic field in a quarter of a century and, due to a combination of his immense wealth and obesity, had not used his own hands for any purpose for the span of five years. The asteroid was also inhabited by Mutdah's servants and staff. For protection from potential assassins among his employees, on at least one occasion Mutdah was surrounded by a force field. Mutdah's staff included the elderly servant Ekisp and two guards, one of which held the rank of a sergeant. Each of the pair of guards spoke Galactic Basic Standard and wore a set of heavy body armor and stylish livery at the same time. The asteroid's security forces made use of at least one brand-new, heavily armed, starfighter-sized ship, the weaponry of which was comparable to that of a light freighter. One of the sides of Oseon 5792 was dotted with high domes of crystalline plastic and transparisteel that together formed a mythological garden consisting of rolling lawns, small lakes, and occasional groves of trees. The pressurized domes were necessary in order to maintain a breathable atmosphere since the pull of the artificial gravity on that side of the asteroid was insufficient for that purpose. Since Lando Calrissian first observed the garden side of Oseon 5792, the asteroid resembled to him an island floating in space. One of the domed gardens&mdash;which was heavily shielded, situated at the edge of Oseon 5792's garden side, and large enough to stretch to the horizon from the point of view of an observer inside it&mdash;contained a large surface mansion complex that resembled an old-fashioned palace. A wide, rich lawn stretched in front of the building and featured a picnic table made out of a synthetic marble. A grove of thorn trees was situated near the lawn, and at one point Bohhuah Mutdah spent time lounging in a gel-filled recliner in front of the expanse of grass. Similar to nearly every other Oseon system asteroid inhabited by Humans, over the duration of its occupation the interior of Oseon 5792 was steadily honeycombed and outfitted with storerooms, living quarters, utility areas, and spaces for other uses. At the center of the asteroid was a spherical cavern half a kilometer in diameter. The titanic chamber was set up to house Mutdah's personal library, with the walls of the room lined with items the trillionaire had collected&mdash;every known variety of written or other records, including printed and handwritten works, analog and digital data storage devices, tablets, stones, bones, hides, and clumps of knotted rope. Hundreds of fluorescent monofilament threads formed a mesh that drifted through the zero-gravity chamber and served as a means of transportation across the room. In the center of the library, a small table, used for tucking under an elastic band a book Mutdah's servant Ekisp was reading to his master, floated in mid-air. A drawer in the table also contained a box of high-quality cigars. The side of Oseon 5792 located opposite the one with the domed gardens served as a miniature spaceport. The facility, which Lando Calrissian found to be impressive, consisted of a starship landing field that stretched across the entire side of the asteroid and was ringed at its edges with heavy armament. The spaceport was cluttered with a very large motley fleet of spacecraft, including many small inter-asteroidal vessels, that together resembled a hobbyist's collection. When the Millennium Falcon visited Oseon 5792, it was guided to land in a small berth designated with a pulsing beacon. A ferrocrete apron connected the parking spot to a service building made of corrugated plastic. Inside the building, an industrial-grade elevator with a pneumatic door led into the asteroid's interior, reaching the entrance of Mutdah's library at Oseon 5792's center before traveling to the mansion complex that was located on the opposite of the asteroid from the Falcon landing berth. thumb|right|250px|Oseon 5792 was introduced in Lando Calrissian and the Flamewind of Oseon. Oseon 5792 appeared in Lando Calrissian and the Flamewind of Oseon, the 1983 second entry in The Lando Calrissian Adventures trilogy of novels by L. Neil Smith. The 2005 reference book The New Essential Chronology introduced the alternate name "Asteroid 5792." "Twinkle, Twinkle Little Star, How I Wonder Where We Are," a 1990 roleplaying game source article published in the thirteenth issue of the Voyages SF magazine, placed the Oseon system, and therefore Oseon 5792, in the Zebitrope sector. Since that article was released outside of the Lucas Licensing process, it was considered non-canonical with respect to the Star Wars Legends continuity. The 2009 reference book The Essential Atlas subsequently overrode the Voyages SF 13 placement by establishing that the Oseon system was situated in grid square T-8 as part of the Centrality. *Lando Calrissian and the Flamewind of Oseon *Star Wars Encyclopedia *The Essential Chronology *A Guide to the Star Wars Universe, Third Edition, Revised and Expanded *The New Essential Chronology *Jedi vs. Sith: The Essential Guide to the Force Category:Destroyed asteroids Category:Oseon system locations Category:Planetoids in the Outer Rim Territories Category:Planetoids in the Slice