9755
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/The_Twisted_Rancor_Trio
The Twisted Rancor Trio
3268

The Twisted Rancor Trio was a popular musical group that was active on Taris prior to and during the Jedi Civil War. The band's roots were mundane, according to manager Gilthos Uksaris, who formed The Twisted Rancor Trio in order to secure a date with a woman named Elinda. Forming the group around Elinda, as the lead singer, Gilthos frantically searched for backing musicians, which he found in the Bith brothers of Ujaa and Ujii. Elinda, however, considered Ujaa a terrible musician and threatened to quit; Gilithos, who didn't want to lose her talents, fired Ujaa and replaced him with another Bith named Loopa. Ujii was not pleased at this turn of events and signed off as well; Loopa then recommended yet another Bith named Fodo to Gilthos. Fodo became the next member, making the group into a trio once again. The initial success of The Twisted Rancor Trio eventually attracted the attention of Exchange crime lord Davik Kang, who requested a performance of the Trio at his estate. Gilithos agreed, however Elinda refused to sing in front of the Exchange boss, disliking his reputation as a criminal and fearing what would happen to her should Kang be displeased. Without a lead singer, the band could not perform for Davik; fortunately for Gilthos, Elinda's sister Ashana was available and willing to perform. Since her talents had not been proven, however, it was uncertain how the show would turn out. *Ashana &mdash; vocalist *Fodo &mdash; musician *Loopa &mdash; musician *Gilthos Uksaris &mdash; founder, manager *Elinda &mdash; vocalist *Ujaa &mdash; musician *Ujii &mdash; musician Within the game Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic the player, as Revan, does not actually meet the band. Only their holograms can be seen, and the history of the group is gleaned from a datapad left behind by their manager, Gilthos. They are part of a puzzle within an apartment of the Lower City of Taris, which the player can solve to unlock a footlocker if he/she activates the holoprojectors displaying the members of the band in the order that they joined. If a wrong holoprojector is activated, the footlocker gives one warning; after the second error, it explodes. *Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic *Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic: Prima's Official Strategy Guide Category:Bands Category:Taris organizations