9800
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Doolb_Snoil
Doolb Snoil
4082

Doolb Snoil was a male Vippit barrister who served the Galactic Republic during the waning years of the Galactic Republic. Born on the planet Nal Hutta, his grandfather had been a diplomat who was involved in negotiations with the Galactic Republic, and his father was presumably also involved in legal work. Snoil had attended a legal university on Mrlsst. He had then become an apprentice in the Gevarno Cluster. By the time of the Clone Wars, he had developed a reputation for having one of the top three or four legal minds in the Republic, and was a member of the Coruscant College of Law. Snoil met Obi-Wan Kenobi when the Padawan saved him from a clan rebellion on Rijel-Twelve in 33 BBY. As a result Snoil could not mate because Kenobi might have requested his help: no respectable Vippit female would enter into negotiations with one who might be called off by a third party without warning. Around 22 BBY, Snoil was assigned to assist his friend Kenobi, who was now a Jedi Knight on the rise of becoming a Master, with negotiations between the Galactic Republic and Five Families of Cestus Cybernetics on Ord Cestus concerning the production and sale of new Jedi killing droids. However, when saving Kenobi from a rogue droid, a stalactite fell on him from a great height and killed him. Snoil was a very diligent and loyal asset to both the Republic and Kenobi, working thoroughly and tirelessly night after night, often without sleep. He enjoyed decorating his shell with viptiels. Doolb Snoil was first mentioned in Steven Barnes' short story The Hive,The Hive released as an eBook in 2004 prior to it's inclusion in the paperback version of hisThe Cestus Deception 2005 novel The Cestus Deception. Barnes created Snoil's name by reversing the title of one of his other novels, Lion's Blood.The Essential Reader's Companion *The Cestus Deception *The Cestus Deception abridged audiobook *The Hive *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia *The Essential Reader's Companion Category:Diplomats Category:Galactic Republic bureaucrats Category:Legal professionals Category:Males Category:Vippits