9944
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Sergio_Aragon%C3%A9s_Stomps_Star_Wars
Sergio Aragonés Stomps Star Wars
6729

|pages=32 |upc= |timeline= |series= |issue= }} Sergio Aragonés Stomps Star Wars is a one-shot humor comic book published by Dark Horse Comics. It parodies events from movie episodes I, IV, V, and VI. It is not considered canonical. Sergio Aragonés and Mark Evanier go to Lucasfilm, where they have an appointment with Lucy Wilson, about making a Star Wars comic for Dark Horse. Aragonés is a delusioned Star Wars fan, who always carries a toy lightsaber and asks the Lucasfilm employees about meeting characters such as R2-D2 and Jabba the Hutt. During Aragonés and Evanier's visit, the original Star Wars trilogy reels are being digitized for modern projectors. While Aragonés is looking at the digitizing equipment, an independent filmmaker (who entered the building disguised as George Lucas) sabotages the electricity while installing a bomb and causes Aragonés to be transferred into Star Wars: Episode IV A New Hope. Aragonés then arrives at the Rebel base in Yavin 4, where he is mistaken for Biggs Darklighter. After meeting Luke Skywalker (“You are prettier than the action figures! And taller too!”), he goes to a rendezvous where the Death Star attack is being arranged. Aragonés at first is afraid and tries to escape, but his lifelong crush, Princess Leia Organa, convinces him otherwise. While checking the digitized movie, Evanier recognizes Aragonés among the Rebel pilots, and after Aragonés' X-wing is destroyed, Evanier tells the projector staff to shift to another scene before his friend dies. The scene shifts to Dagobah, where Aragonés talks to Yoda before getting picked up by the Millennium Falcon. Han Solo and Chewbacca take Aragonés to Bespin, and the trio jumps off the ship as they notice a tractor beam is attracting them to Cloud City. Han and Chewie are shot by Darth Vader who proceeds to attack Aragonés. After the ghost of Obi-Wan Kenobi contacts Aragonés to use the “Farse” (“Not 'The Force'! You can't use the Force! It has elevated standards!”), he proceeds to use a pencil to draw funny pictures of Vader, which embarrasses the Sith and causes him to collapse. Unfortunately, this happens just as George Lucas himself is showing the digitized movie to international distributors, who proceed to complain about the film being ridiculous and get away. Security then beats Lucas as he is mistaken for the impostor. The digitizing experts decide to download Aragonés out of the film, just as Leia is about to kiss the cartoonist during a medal ceremony. Security then notices the saboteur, who reveals a remote control, which if pressed will trigger the explosives set around Lucasfilm. Aragonés materializes and tackles the saboteur, who is then taken by security. Aragonés picks up the remote and accidentally presses the button, causing the entire building to blow up. Aragonés and Evanier are fired from Dark Horse (“I asked when we could work for them again. They said something about 'when Hell freezes over'.”), and George Lucas is forced to beg for money in the streets. Among the Lucasfilm and affiliates employees who appear are John Knoll, Rob Coleman, Scott Squires and Dennis Muren (visual effects artists), Rick McCallum (producer), Howard Roffman (vice-president), and Jim Morris (president of Lucas Digital). In a reference to other movies with effects by Industrial Light & Magic, Scott Squires wears a Roger Rabbit shirt, and a doll of The Mask (who originated in comics by Dark Horse) is seen at the effects artists' table. A group of Stormtroopers attacks the saboteur in his first attempt to invade Lucasfilm. Evanier mentions that when visiting Steven Spielberg, Aragonés made a mountain out of mashed potatoes - a reference to Spielberg's Close Encounters of the Third Kind. At the newsstand of the last page, a comic book starring Groo, an Aragonés character, can be seen. File:Sassw1cover.jpg|Cover File:SergioAragonesStompsStarWars-art.png|Cover art *Star Wars Omnibus: Wild Space Volume 2 *Star Wars Legends Epic Collection: The Rebellion Vol. 6 *Star Wars Legends: The Rebellion Omnibus Vol. 3 Category:Dark Horse Comics one-shot comics Category:Non-canon comic stories Category:Parodies