9994
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Delak_Krennel
Delak Krennel
14084

Delak Krennel was a Human male native to Corulag. Krennel would eventually enroll within the Imperial Navy of the Galactic Empire. Krennel was an aggressive commander, and was extremely Humanocentric, displaying hatred towards Non-humans. Krennel would ascend to the rank of Admiral, and became the commanding officer of the Imperial II-class Star Destroyer Reckoning, and was assigned to serve Grand Admiral Thrawn's fleet within the Unknown Regions. Krennel hated Thrawn, and disobeyed direct orders and carried out ruthless strikes against the enemy. This led to Thrawn removing his arm, which Krennel would replace with a prosthetic arm. Krennel would be sent to Coruscant to be punished further, but with the loss at Endor, Krennel received none. Krennel went on to serve Imperial Intelligence Director Ysanne Isard, who dispatched Krennel to eliminate former Grand Vizier Pestage, after being removed as Emperor. Krennel would kill Pestage, and become a warlord through the self-styled title "Prince-Admiral.", ruling the Ciutric Hegemony. He would financially support Thrawn when he returned from the Unknown Regions to fight the New Republic. Krennel would later desire peace and allow refugees to enter his territory. When the New Republic recovered plans that depicted the warlord supposedly building a Death Star-weapon, New Republic forces would deploy to end Krennel's fiefdom. Krennel would eventually die in battle aboard the Reckoning, ending his life and his faction. Krennel was born on Corulag. At a young age, he demonstrated the firm Humanocentrism as well as the sadism and penchant for brutality that would mark his later career when he helped his father burn down alien-owned farmlands so they could be seized by a Human agro-combine. He began his Imperial service when he joined the Prefsbelt IV Naval Academy. His academy record bore several prizes as an intramural unarmed combat champion. In later years, Krennel still kept himself in fighting trim, and his abilities were only enhanced when his right hand and forearm were replaced by a mechanical prosthetic, which was composed of metal and glowed from within with red light. Upon graduation, Krennel was assigned to active service under Grand Admiral Rufaan Tigellinus. Krennel's brutality grated on his refined commanding officer, and Tigellinus reassigned him to the Unknown Regions of the galaxy, where he served under the Chiss known as Thrawn as a captain in command of the Star Destroyer Reckoning. Krennel resented his position beneath a nonhuman officer, as well as his post at the Unknown Regions, but could not voice his frustrations to Thrawn, so he instead used his rage to escalate his brutal nature on the alien prisoners. Eventually, Krennel's anger towards Thrawn had him decide to use a force pike against one of Thrawn's artworks, in mockery of his superior's tendency to utilize alien artwork to exploit an alien race's weakness during battle. This resulted in Thrawn ordering one of his Noghri Death Commandos to cut his arm off from the elbow down before he could damage it. Following the incident, Krennel acquired a new respect for both Thrawn and the power of fear, as well as a prosthetic limb. thumb|left|Delak Krennel and [[Ysanne Isard, each with their own secret agendas]] In the wake of the Battle of Endor, Krennel was promoted to the rank of admiral. On the orders of Ysanne Isard,X-Wing Rogue Squadron 29 director of Imperial Intelligence,Star Wars Handbook 1: X-Wing Rogue Squadron he took Reckoning to the planet Axxila in an attempt to capture an Alliance force led by Leia Organa. Krennel had his TIE/LN starfighter complement fire upon local civilians to draw out the rebels, but was forced to withdraw, empty-handed, by an AT3 Directive issued by Imperial defector Soontir Fel, posing as an undercover operative. At the insistence of Sate Pestage, Krennel obeyed, at the same time allowing a freighter carrying pirate Captain Leonia Tavira to jump to lightspeed. Unbeknownst to the admiral, Pestage had negotiated with both Tavira and the rebels to secure their support in his own defection. Pestage fled Coruscant for Ciutric IV and Krennel, aligned with General Paltr Carvin of the tribunal that took the regent's place and eager to make up for his deception at Axxila, was assigned on a retrieval mission to Ciutric. While assessing a tactical hologram for the coming operation, the admiral was intercepted by Isard, who negotiated possession of Pestage for political power and the addition of the Interdictor-class Star Destroyer Binder to Krennel's own Reckoning.X-Wing Rogue Squadron 33 When Pestage escaped the New Republic, he sought asylum with Krennel, unaware of his hatred for the Grand Vizier. Krennel strangled Pestage and seized his holdings in the Ciutric Hegemony, before coldly murdering Pestage's entire family. Krennel then styled himself as a warlord, with the title of "Prince-Admiral." During Thrawn's campaign, Krennel offered monetary support and pretended to pay heed to his former commander's call for unity. In 9 ABY, after the defeat of Thrawn at Bilbringi, Krennel was targeted to be an example to warlords of the New Republic's newly strengthened policy against them. With the clone Isard, Krennel began a plot to sow chaos in the New Republic between human and nonhuman species, waylay freight traffic to Coruscant at Liinade III, and conquer Coruscant. Rogue Squadron put their plans to a quick end, with the aid of the original Ysanne Isard. Wedge Antilles forwarded intelligence provided by Isard to the New Republic Defense Fleet, which dispatched a flotilla to Ciutric before Krennel's forces could launch their attack. The flotilla, under the command of Admiral Gial Ackbar crushed Krennel's forces in a Thrawn Pincer and seized the shield-stripped capital of the Hegemony. Krennel died aboard his flagship, Reckoning, when a concussion missile launched from either the Selonian Fire or Corusca Fire pierced the forward viewport, shattering the viewport and sending shards of transparisteel through Krennel's body. When the missile exploded, Krennel and the entire bridge were destroyed. Krennel was a competent tactician and strategist (as evidenced by his promotion to Imperial Admiral), but he was a brutal man by nature and had little tolerance for the subtler approaches espoused by two of his old superiors, Thrawn and Isard. His reflexive response to any obstacle was to crush it. He was very sadistic, as well as masochistic, the latter trait being adopted shortly after he lost his arm to Thrawn when trying to damage one of his artworks. Krennel had no patience for delays or those he deemed incompetent, and he would react with violent outbursts—going so far as to beat an Isard intelligence operative to death for failing him.X-Wing Rogue Squadron 34 During his brief tutelage by Isard's clone as ruler of the Ciutric Hegemony, he began to experiment with political propaganda and other means of manipulating opinion in his favor, presenting himself as a sympathetic ruler rather than a tyrant. He started to see the effectiveness of these methods and flattered himself that he was a quick learner and would soon be able to master them without "Isard's" help. His death in battle cut short any promise he might have shown. *X-Wing Rogue Squadron 31 *X-Wing Rogue Squadron 32 *X-Wing Rogue Squadron 33 *X-Wing Rogue Squadron 34 *X-Wing Rogue Squadron 35 *X-Wing: Isard's Revenge *X-Wing: Isard's Revenge abridged audiobook *The Essential Chronology *The New Essential Guide to Characters *The New Essential Chronology *Star Wars: The Comics Companion *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia *The Essential Guide to Warfare *The Essential Reader's Companion Category:Corulag residents Category:Cyborgs with prosthetics Category:Humans Category:Imperial Navy admirals of the Galactic Empire Category:Imperial warlords Category:Individuals with lost limbs Category:Males Category:Personnel of Delak Krennel's regime