9900
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Biker_Advanced_Recon_Commando
Biker Advanced Recon Commando
8798

|formed= |founded= |fragmented= |reorganized= |dissolved= |restored= |affiliation=*Galactic Republic **Grand Army of the Republic *Galactic EmpireStar Wars Character Encyclopedia: Updated and Expanded **Imperial Army }} Biker Advanced Recon Commandos, also referred to as BARC troopers, were special forces clone troopers of the Grand Army of the Republic that were trained to ride BARC speeders across difficult terrain or dangerous battlegrounds. BARC troopers were equipped with modified clone trooper armor that directed their attention forward to avoid distractions, which could be dangerous to them at high speeds. During the final days of the Clone Wars, BARC troopers under the command of Jedi General Stass Allie and Clone Commander Neyo were present on the planet Saleucami. Whilst out on a speeder bike patrol, Neyo was issued Order 66 by the Supreme Chancellor of the Galactic Republic, Sheev Palpatine, which forced him to open fire on his superior. As a result Allie, like most of the other Jedi across the galaxy, was killed by the troops. BARC troopers were specialized ARC troopers who were trained to pilot high speed BARC speeders in combat. They were often assigned reconnaissance missions, but could also act as cavalry for their allies or as a vanguard for ARF troopers or AT-RTs. BARC troopers excelled at high speeds and boasted they had the speediest reaction times in the clone army. BARC troopers were also skilled in armed and unarmed combat as well as military tactics.Star Wars: The Clone Wars: Character Encyclopedia - Join the Battle! BARC troopers tended to get impatient while riding slower, conventional clone trooper craft, as they were trained to think and move quickly. thumb|left|300px|BARC troopers control BARC speeders on the planet Saleucami. Like most clone troopers, BARC troopers were 1.83 meters or 6 feet tall. During the Clone Wars, BARC troopers were used prominently on Christophsis, Orto Plutonia and Kashyyyk. By the year 19 BBY,Star Wars: Galactic Atlas BARC troopers in the 91st Mobile Reconnaissance Corps were stationed on Saleucami during the Outer Rim Sieges of the Clone Wars. Whilst riding across the planet's terrain on a BARC speeder, Clone Commander Neyo was issued Order 66 by Supreme Chancellor Sheev Palpatine of the Galactic Republic. Forced to comply as a result of their behavioral modification biochips, he and a wingman opened fire on Jedi General Stass Allie's speeder, destroying the vehicle and killing the Jedi. After carrying out Order 66, Commander Neyo and his troops would go on to serve the newly formed Galactic Empire which succeeded the Republic following Order 66 and the outbreak of the Great Jedi Purge, with the BARC troopers of the 91st Recon Corps proceeding to serve in the new Imperial Army. BARC troopers wore a modified variant of standard clone trooper armor, with a helmet that was fitted with blinders to direct attention forward and minimize distractions, that could be dangerous at high speeds. Clone troopers on BARC speeders in armor similar to, but not exactly the sameObi-Wan 4 as that of Phase II era BARC troopers, were active within a battle on Saleucami between 21 BBY and 20 BBY.Obi-Wan 4 establishes that the battle of Saleucami that Mekedrix fought in took place after the Battle of Ryloth, which ended in "Liberty on Ryloth," but before the Devaron massacre, which occurred in "Monster." Per the reasoning here, the events of "Liberty on Ryloth" can be dated to 21 BBY, while the events of "Monster" can be dated to 20 BBY. As such, the battle of Saleucami must occur between those two years. The image for BARC troopers in the reference book Star Wars: The Clone Wars: Character Encyclopedia - Join the Battle! shows Jesse on Saleucami while transporting a wounded Rex. However, while Jesse was later promoted to ARC trooper, he was never seen wearing BARC trooper armor. Rex, Jesse, Kix and Hardcase all piloted BARC speeders during the Battle of Saleucami, but they were not BARC troopers themselves. *Star Wars Battlefront II *Ultimate Star Wars *Star Wars: The Visual Encyclopedia *Star Wars Encyclopedia of Starfighters and Other Vehicles *Star Wars: The Complete Visual Dictionary, New Edition *Ultimate Star Wars, New Edition |cards= }} *Star Wars: The Clone Wars: Character Encyclopedia - Join the Battle! *Star Wars Encyclopedia: The Comprehensive Guide to the Star Wars Galaxy Category:Advanced Recon Commandos Category:Clone trooper variants