10012
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/AT-RT_driver
AT-RT driver
18991

*TatooineStar Wars Battlefront: Elite Squadron *Cato Neimoidia *Kashyyyk *Utapau *Jedi Temple, Coruscant *Dantooine |formed= |founded= |fragmented= |reorganized= |dissolved= |restored= |affiliation=*Galactic Republic **Grand Army of the Republic *Galactic Empire **Imperial Military }} AT-RT drivers, also known as AT-RT clone pilots, were elite clone trooper pilots of the Grand Army of the Republic that specialized in ground reconnaissance and operating the bipedal All Terrain Recon Transport, which they were named after. Known for their modified clone armor and unique helmets, AT-RT drivers fought in the Clone Wars between the Galactic Republic and the Confederacy of Independent Systems. The Grand Army of the Republic's AT-RT drivers, also known as AT-RT clone pilots, were specialized clone trooper pilots that received extensive training in scouting, sniper rifle utilization, and operating the All Terrain Recon Transport, a type of bipedal reconnaissance walker manufactured by Kuat Drive Yards and the vehicle they were named after. Considered elite troopers, AT-RT drivers also received additional conditioning for swampy and humid environments. thumb|left|200px|The 212th Attack Battalion was known to use AT-RT drivers. During the Clone Wars between the Galactic Republic and the Confederacy of Independent Systems, clone AT-RT drivers often participated in reconnaissance and infantry support operations, and would help support clone recon patrols in locations with dangerous jungle terrain. The Republic also used AT-RT drivers as a means to provide constant situation reports and information back to Forward Command Centers. Furthermore, following battles, AT-RT pilots were used to survey battlefields in order to direct clone trooper medics to wounded soldiers, recover equipment, take prisoners, and to destroy any remaining battle droids. While AT-RT pilots were known for their usage of the AT-RT, they still participated in scouting operations without their walkers. Several units fielded AT-RT drivers, including the 41st Elite Legion—whose drivers were renowned for being some of the best, Green Company, the 91st Mobile Reconnaissance Corps, Lightning Squadron,Galaxy at War the 212th Attack Battalion, and the 442nd Siege Battalion. thumb|right|250px|ARC heavy gunners used modified AT-RT driver armor during the Clone Wars. AT-RT drivers wore modified clone trooper armor with smaller shoulder pads and a specialized helmet. Visually distinct from the standard clone helmet, the AT-RT driver's helmet featured a protruding, enhanced long-range comlink, allowing the pilot to operate away from their AT-RT. While the standard clone helmet featured a singular T-shaped visor, the AT-RT driver's helmet had two visors instead, one for each eye. AT-RT drivers acting as scouts occasionally wore lifeform scanners strapped to their chest plates. The scanners had a circular, metallic appearance, with a red sensor in the middle. Standard driver armor was white, but could be customized to denote unit affiliation.Star Wars: Revenge of the Sith: The Visual Dictionary The 212th Attack Battalion's AT-RT drivers used orange markings, while the 41st Elite Legion's drivers used green and brown camo markings on their armor. Advanced Recon Commando heavy gunners used modified AT-RT driver armor to aid in operating their reciprocating quad blasters. thumb|left|220px|An AT-RT driver piloting an AT-RT. As their name implied, AT-RT drivers used the All Terrain Recon Transport as their primary vehicle and weapon of choice during the Clone Wars. While the AT-RT was their primary vehicle, they also made use of other vehicles, such as the Republic fighter tank. While operating outside of their AT-RTs, drivers used a wide variety of other weapons during war. Their main weapons included the DC-15A blaster rifle and the DC-15S blaster carbine, which could be kept away at the back of the AT-RT when not in use, and a small stock of V-1 thermal detonators. AT-RT pilots developed a familiarity with sniper rifles during their training as scouts, and would often use the DC-15x sniper rifle during their missions. Certain AT-RT drivers also used heavier weapons, including the PLX-1 portable missile launcher which was favored by drivers with a penchant for explosive damage. Some AT-RT drivers also carried a bulky weapon that was slung behind their backs when out of use. thumb|right|200px|An AT-RT driver during the Battle of Cato Neimodia. AT-RT drivers saw action as early as 21 BBY,Star Wars Annual 2011 during the Battle of Rishi against the Confederacy's Geonosian forces, where a single AT-RT driver was deployed with Green Company to reclaim the planet's exonium mines. AT-RT drivers later saw action in 19 BBY during the Battle of Kashyyyk, under the 9th Assault Corps' 41st Elite Legion and the 91st Recon Corps' Lightning Squadron. AT-RT pilots also saw action during the Battle of Utapau where they were led by High Jedi General Obi-Wan Kenobi, during the Battle of Cato Neimodia, and during the Invasion of Tatooine. thumb|left|240px|Imperial AT-RT drivers invaded the planet Dantooine (pictured) in order to find and execute Falon Grey. Following the execution of Order 66 by Supreme Chancellor Palpatine in 19 BBY, clone AT-RT drivers followed the order on Cato Neimoidia, where they helped kill Jedi General Ferroda. Some AT-RT drivers were also present in the Jedi Temple on Coruscant during Operation: Knightfall, helping slaughter the Jedi in the temple alongside the 501st Legion and Darth Vader. During Order 66, clone AT-RT drivers also directly assisted in the execution of Jedi Master Luminara Unduli on the planet Kashyyyk.Star Wars: Episode III — Revenge of the Sith 3 Following the order, AT-RT pilots continued to help hunt down surviving Wookiees and Jedi on the planet, including Jedi Master Yoda, who evaded their search efforts and escaped off-world. Between 17 BBY and 15 BBY,The narration in the Nintendo DS version of Star Wars Battlefront: Elite Squadron states that fifteen years have elapsed between the battle on Dantooine and X2's meeting with Rahm Kota. Their meeting occurs at a point before the Battle of Yavin, but after the formation of the Rebel Alliance, which takes place in 2 BBY according to The New Essential Chronology. Using simple math to deduct fifteen years from those two dates, an approximate time period between the years 17 BBY and 15 BBY can be established for the events on Dantooine. after the rise of the Galactic Empire, the now Imperial AT-RT drivers participated in the Invasion of Dantooine, an operation orchestrated in order to find and kill the fugitive Falon Grey during the Great Jedi Purge. AT-RT drivers first appeared, albeit unnamed, in , a 2005 film written and directed by George Lucas. They were later identified in Dressing a Galaxy: The Costumes of Star Wars, a reference book written by Trisha Biggar and published in the same year by Abrams Books.Dressing a Galaxy: The Costumes of Star Wars *Star Wars: Episode III — Revenge of the Sith 3 *Star Wars Battlefront: Elite Squadron *Star Wars Battlefront: Renegade Squadron *Star Wars: Revenge of the Sith Incredible Cross-Sections *Star Wars: Revenge of the Sith: The Visual Dictionary *Ultimate Missions: Revenge of the Sith *Dressing a Galaxy: The Costumes of Star Wars *Star Wars Chronicles: The Prequels *Star Wars: Complete Cross-Sections *Star Wars: Epic Battles |cards= }} *The Clone Wars Campaign Guide *Galaxy at War *Star Wars: The Official Starships & Vehicles Collection 30 *Star Wars: The Clone Wars: Incredible Vehicles }} Category:Clone trooper variants