10626
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Duskhan_League
Duskhan League
6391

The Duskhan League was a theocracy of the Yevethan species in the Koornacht Cluster that sat on the periphery of the Core Worlds of the galaxy. The emblem of the government was a double circle of three-pointed stars on a scarlet background. The Yevetha Protectorate declared its independence as the Duskhan League during the Yevethan Uprising against the Galactic Empire and was led for twelve years by Nil Spaar from the capital world of N'zoth. It consisted of a political theocracy of pure Yevethan colony worlds.The Essential Chronology By 16 ABY, the League included thirteen worlds in the Koornacht Cluster, including N'zoth, Wakiza, Zhina, Tizon, Z'fell, and Faz. In 16 ABY, the League forcefully colonized several worlds in the Koornacht Cluster after exterminating their non-Yevetha populations. A series of political and military engagements with the New Republic undertook a military intervention against the Duskhan League that became known as the Black Fleet Crisis, culminating in the liberation of N'zoth by the New Republic in 17 ABY. Under the New Republic, N'zoth was razed over a decade later by the extra-galactic Yuuzhan Vong during their invasion of the galaxy after the Yevetha began building up its planetary security forces. The Duskhan League was an theocracy that emerged in 4 ABY during the Yevethan Uprising against the Galactic Empire, and was led by the Darama, a spiritual leader for the whole Yevetha that headed a strict hierarchical system and operated as the chief of state, and was treated with the greatest respect. Politically, Yevethan government was led by a Viceroy, who also operated as the prime minister for the Duskhan League. Departments of governance, commerce, science, and culture were led by Proctors, and supported by various guilds. The Darama and Viceroy became over time linked positions, connecting Yevethan spirituality and politics. thumb|250px|Nil Spaar meets [[Leia Organa Solo/Legends|Leia Organa Solo.]] Thirteen years after the uprising, the isolationist regime opened talks with the New Republic by bringing a Yevethan delegation to Coruscant, but it was in truth a ruse to cause mistrust of Chief of State Leia Organa Solo in the New Republic Senate and to gather intelligence on the New Republic. Nil Spaar rejected membership into the New Republic, instead proposing an alliance of sorts, despite all of Organa Solo's attempts to persuade him of the benefits of full membership. He used stories of Imperial brutality against the Yevetha to justify their wariness and desire for independence. *Before the Storm *Before the Storm abridged audiobook *Shield of Lies *Shield of Lies abridged audiobook *Tyrant's Test *Tyrant's Test abridged audiobook *The New Jedi Order: Agents of Chaos I: Hero's Trial *Cracken's Threat Dossier *Star Wars Encyclopedia *Alien Encounters *The Essential Guide to Planets and Moons *The Essential Chronology *A Guide to the Star Wars Universe, Third Edition, Revised and Expanded *The New Essential Guide to Characters *Coruscant and the Core Worlds *Hero's Guide *The New Essential Chronology *The New Essential Guide to Alien Species *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia *The Essential Atlas *The Essential Reader's Companion Category:Core Worlds governments Category:Interplanetary governments Category:Yevethan culture