10604
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/LE-BO2D9
LE-BO2D9
10631

LE-BO2D9, nicknamed Leebo, was a Cybot Galactica LE-series repair droid owned by Dash Rendar during the Galactic Civil War. left|thumb|Leebo and Dash under fire Being a basic issue of LE repair droid, Leebo worked in Esseles starport as a safety standards inspector. At one time, an unknown transport vessel took off while being checked by the droid, making Leebo an unwilling stowaway. From that moment forward, LE-BO2D9 began to work as a ship mechanic, going from one owner to another throughout the years. He served multiple masters and each of them updated his abilities and skills, allowing Leebo to do more and more. Finally, he came to the hands of Corellian pilot and mercenary Dash Rendar. Dash acquired the droid as payment from the Rodian comedian Kood Gareeda, and Dash seemed to believe his new possession acquired his former master's dry sense of humor. Leebo accompanied Dash during his trip to Hoth, piloting his light freighter, Outrider, away from Echo Base and into the Hoth asteroid field following the Imperial attack. He later aided Dash during his escapades on Ord Mantell, Gall, on bodyguard mission to protect Luke Skywalker given by Princess Leia, the assault on Imperial freighter, Suprosa, and then the rescue of Leia Organa from Xizor's Palace, always guarding Outrider while offering Dash advice during his travels. After the rescue of Princess Leia, he received Dash back to the Outrider. Leebo summoned the Rogue Quadron for support for their escape from Imperial Center, and also piloted the ship at the Battle over Coruscant, while Rendar was manning the gun turret. At the end of the dogfight, Leebo was at the cockpit of the Outrider when Rendar made a last-second escape into hyperspace, avoiding destruction in the maelstrom of debris from the exploded Falleen's Fist. To everyone else, it seemed as if the Outrider was destroyed and everyone onboard were killed.Star Wars: Shadows of the Empire novelShadows of the Empire 6 thumb|Leebo, working on the Outrider Leebo often carried a bag with necessary tools with him. Some of his worn out components were replaced by new ones throughout his operation, giving out a visual mixture of both old and new metal parts. Equipped with specialized sensors, holoprojector, single-channel long-range comlink, and computer interface, he was a skilled mechanic and pilot. His programming, being updated by every owner, was far more sophisticated than that installed on stock LE repair droids. Because he'd had few, if any, memory wipes throughout his life, he'd developed a personality and specific sense of humor. Leebo was named after LucasArts art department technical artist Mike "Leebo" Levine. Leebo was voiced by Tom Kane in Shadows of The Empire. *Shadow Games *Star Wars: Shadows of the Empire Galoob minicomic *Star Wars: Shadows of the Empire novel *Star Wars: Shadows of the Empire abridged audiobook *Star Wars: Shadows of the Empire junior novelization *Star Wars: Shadows of the Empire video game *Shadows of the Empire 6 *The Secrets of Star Wars: Shadows of the Empire *Shadows of the Empire Sourcebook |cards= }} *Star Wars: Shadows of the Empire Limited Collector's Edition *Star Wars: The Art of the Brothers Hildebrandt *Star Wars Encyclopedia *The Essential Guide to Droids |cards= }} *Star Wars: The Official Starships & Vehicles Collection 1 *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia *The Essential Reader's Companion }} Category:Droids with masculine programming Category:LE-series repair droids Category:Mechanics Category:Pilots