10715
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Krasov_Hara
Krasov Hara
4304

Krasov Hara was a female Barabel Jedi Knight of the New Jedi Order, who was the hatchmate of Tesar Sebatyne and Bela Hara. Krasov was trained in the ways of the Force by Saba Sebatyne and was a member of the Force-sensitive squadron, known as the Wild Knights, that was formed by her Master. Krasov participated in several campaigns throughout the Yuuzhan Vong War; most notably she was a member of the Myrkr strike team and was one of many to die during that disastarous mission. Due to Barabel mating customs, it was impossible for Krasov to know if she shared a father with Tesar Sebatyne. However, while aware that she was definitely the sister of Bela Hara, the two referred to themselves as hatchmates, along with Tesar. The three were each trained in the ways of the Jedi by Tesar's mother, Saba Sebatyne. Krasov's experiences with her two hatchmates resulted in them sharing an extremely strong connection through the Force, which served them well as members of the Wild Knights; allowing them to sense the intentions and feelings of the others during combat. After Saba decided that her three apprentices would go to the Jedi academy to continue their Force training under Jedi Master Luke Skywalker, the Wild Knights set out for Yavin 4. However, the academy had been destroyed by the Yuuzhan Vong, and the squadron was forced to fight its way through Yuuzhan Vong held space to rendeavouz with the New Jedi Order. The three hatchmates were then nominated by Master Skywalker to aid in a mission to hunt voxyn. The team was tasked with gaining voxyn samples so as to help Cilghal cofirm her theory that voxyn came from a common template. During this mission a New Republic ship was attacked by the Yuuzhan Vong and the hatchmates impressed their fellow Jedi, including Kyp Durron, with their control of Jedi battle melds. Krasov, along with Tesar and Bela, chose to go to Myrkr as part of the strike team. Krasov was the fifth Jedi to fall during the mission, shortly after her hatchmate Bela. Krasov was struck in the face by acid spat by a voxyn, and slowly succumbed to her wounds. Krasov ensured that she held a thermal detonator as she died. Her body then attracted voxyn, and as they knocked the detonator from her hand, it ignited, killing several voxyn and allowing the remainder of the strike team, except Anakin Solo, to survive the mission. *The New Jedi Order: Recovery *The New Jedi Order: Star by Star *The New Jedi Order: Destiny's Way *Dark Nest I: The Joiner King *The New Jedi Order Sourcebook *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Barabel Category:Females Category:Jedi Guardians Category:Jedi Knights of the New Jedi Order Category:New Republic individuals Category:Pilots Category:Wild Knights