10909
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Malorum
Malorum
17847

Malorum was a Human male who as one of the original members of the Inquisitorius, became its first Grand Inquisitor during the time following the formation of the Galactic Empire. Tall and imposing, Malorum wore a dark maroon robe similar to that worn by Emperor Palpatine. Malorum was slightly Force-sensitive.The Last of the Jedi: Underworld Malorum initially worked as an Imperial Intelligence operative, and along with Director Armand Isard, visited the Jedi Temple in the aftermath of Order 66. There, he saw a hologram of Emperor Palpatine addressing Anakin Skywalker as Lord Vader. Thus, Malorum was one of a few in the Empire&mdash;along with Prince Xizor, two decades later&mdash;who knew Vader's true identity, although Vader and Palpatine were unaware of this fact. Following the incident, Malorum was plucked out of obscurity by Palpatine, who revealed that he was a Sith and placed Malorum in charge of the Inquisitorius. He was assisted by a lower Inquisitor, Hydra.The Last of the Jedi: Secret Weapon Subsequently, Malorum made it his business to discover everything he could about Skywalker, through bribes and surveillance, and digging into what had happened months before. He learned that Skywalker was the father of Senator Amidala's (presumed deceased) child. He employed Boba Fett to investigate Naboo and the asteroid field of Polis Massa, searching for information about the late Padmé Amidala. Malorum acted on his own initiative, hoping to ingratiate himself with Vader, while at the same time obtaining information to bring about his downfall. He became known as Vader's "pet" through his investigations in Vader's name. Malorum, however, wanted to replace Vader as the Emperor's apprentice, and planned to become Emperor himself one day. Eventually, Malorum was reassigned to Bellassa, where he worked as the chief of security, training Imperial Security Bureau agents on the planet. Malorum became obsessed with hunting down the escaped fugitive and ex-Jedi Ferus Olin, enlisting the help of bounty hunters such as Boba Fett and D'harhan to help crush the Rebel uprising on Bellassa. The ghost of Jedi Master Qui-Gon Jinn then instructed his former Padawan, Master Obi-Wan Kenobi, to help Olin; because while doing so, Kenobi would learn that Malorum was investigating Polis Massa and thus Kenobi would learn about the importance of stopping Malorum before the Skywalker twins could be discovered. Olin managed to escape Bellassa with the help of Kenobi. For a time, Kenobi overestimated the influence and power of Malorum, believing him to be directly behind the Inquisitorius operations in Acherin. Although Kenobi returned soon afterward to his self-imposed exile in Tatooine, he ordered Olin to deal with the threat of Malorum.The Last of the Jedi: Dark Warning thumb|left|Malorum on Naboo Malorum was then assigned to the Jedi Temple on Coruscant. He set up his office in the former living quarters of Jedi Master Yoda. While in the Jedi Temple, he was paid a visit by Darth Vader. Malorum told Vader all he knew about Polis Massa, hoping to please Vader. However, when Vader heard the name of the place, he grew furious at this reminder of his dead wife, and he nearly force choked Malorum to death. The unexpected discovery of an intruder in the Temple led to Vader freeing Malorum so that the Inquisitor could track him, but to Vader's surprise, Malorum failed.The Last of the Jedi: Return of the Dark Side Later, Malorum set a sleeper bomb in the Temple. His goal was to destroy the Temple and disgrace Vader in the Emperor's eyes. The bomb, however, was deactivated by Ferus Olin, Trever Flume, and Solace. When stormtroopers captured Ferus, they interrogated him and asked him the name of the Jedi Ferus met on Bellassa. Ferus refused to talk, despite threats of execution. Malorum sent Ferus to the prison world of Dontamo, and later ordered his execution. He then visted Naboo to learn more about Amidala. Malorum's time on Naboo was frustrating, with Queen Apailana and other Naboo politicians refusing to give him a straight answer &mdash; he particularly found the Queen's attitude exasperating. Malorum then killed Ryoo Thule after deducing that Amidala's child still lived, but was stopped by Ferus Olin before he could report this information. Malorum and Ferus faced off in a vicious lightsaber duel on Naboo. In the end, Malorum lost grip of his lightsaber and fell to the Naboo power generator. Malorum's death was eventually confirmed by Captain Typho after the Theed Hangar was blown up alongside Imperial Headquarters. Once Olin had left Naboo, Palpatine contacted Olin to congratulate him for his success on defeating Malorum and he requested him to come to Coruscant for an offer, all before Olin could report to Kenobi about Malorum's demise. Malorum strongly believed in the Empire's doctrines and used them to his cunning, using them to try and scare and oppress people, such as Doctor Amie Antin into giving over Ferus Olin when he heard of a suspicious figure entering her clinic. Even going to lengths such as threatening Amie's son Adem Antin. As it turned out the suspicious figure was not Olin, but instead Obi-Wan Kenobi. Malorum claimed to have a "good nature" that could be trespassed when he didn't get his way, such as when Amie Antin held her own against Malorum's threats or when he was infuriated by the fact he couldn't threaten or punish the people of Naboo for trying to help him as they seemed to have full cooperation. Malorum was typically soft spoken and hated losing his temper and raising his voice, feeling that a loss of control of a situation was a mistake, but he also felt it could an effective tactic. The Empire and by extension Malorum, intended to use Ferus Olin as a symbol of suppression, attempting to imprison or kill him to tell the galaxy that rebellion would not be tolerated. This was demonstrated when Olin turned himself in on the condition the prisoners of Order 37 were released, where Malorum intended to have Olin and the prisoners executed at once; however, unbeknownst to Malorum, this was a set up by Ferus and Kenobi, leading to Malorum losing the prisoners among the citizens of Ussa. Malorum did eventually capture Ferus Olin on Coruscant, and got great joy out of it. However, Ferus kept command of Malorum's interview with his wit and bravado, eventually Malorum stopped giving Ferus opportunities to tell him what he knew and got straight to the point that if Ferus didn't give the names of the Jedi he knew were alive then he'd be executed. Despite Ferus's control in the interview, Malorum still attempted to get a reaction from him, claiming the Jedi were hypocrites that tried to take over the Senate and kill Palpatine. Ferus, however, remained unphased and gave a counter-argument. Additionally, Malorum believed himself to be of much greater importance than he actually was to Darth Vader and Emperor Palpatine and would often try to justify how useful he was to Vader. Ferus Olin realised that Malorum was after Vader's position. He would often boast about his achievements and make up lies to make himself appear better than he was. He often tried to hide operations from Vader until they were complete so he could present them to the Dark Lord and gain more favour with Vader and the Emperor. However, he was gullible to an extent, as displayed when Vader suggested blowing up the Jedi Temple only for him to ask about his office, the amount of information that could be lost. Information he should've put into Imperial Security. However, Malorum was quick thinking, and was quickly able to conjure excuses and lies, such as when he made the excuse that the Emperor gave him permission to withhold data from Imperial Security if he thinks it could endanger investigations. Malorum correctly felt that the Emperor thought as Vader as a dissappointment and hoped to live up to what Vader could not. Something that was tough as Vader often undermined Malorum. Vader often put up with Malorum, and only kept him around as he had use. Something that could've cost him when Malorum used his cunning and attempted to blow up the Jedi Temple to disgrace Vader in the eyes of the Emperor, being able to say that Vader gave him the command to do so. However, Vader predicted Malorum's act and reported to it the Emperor prior to Malorum's meeting with the Emperor. Despite that, Malorum's intelligence still allowed him to smartly approach situations, knowing how to talk with the Emperor and not get on his bad side through not arguing and quickly changing the subject. This meant he'd withhold information for future meetings if he needed to quickly build good will. But due to his high intelligence, he'd get annoyed when he couldn't piece things together in his mind and was left confused, because the way his mind worked meant he was typically able to catalogue facts in his mind and quickly reach conclusions. He was aware that Vader was Anakin Skywalker, something he had learned prior to the Jedi Temple's security footage being wiped, watching the Jedi purge and Palpatine christening Skywalker as Darth Vader, however, Palpatine was unaware that Malorum knew of Vader's identity. Malorum was not just after Vader's position, but also after the position of Emperor. However, he only let the thought slip occasionally as he was far off from reaching that position. Malorum had an obsession with capturing Jedi, willing to forgo Vader's orders to wipe out resistance on Coruscant, in order to lure Jedi into the trap he had in the tattered Jedi Temple. Malorum made common use of spies, having them all over Coruscant to watch for resistance. Malorum considered Jedi hiding their names cowardly. Malorum often got jealous of others receiving power he thought he should get. And would be insulted when he had weapons checks when meeting with the Emperor as he viewed himself as the Emperor's most loyal servant. Additionally he was infuriated with how the Emperor treated him, Palpatine had promised to Malorum he could achieve great things if he learned the Force, as a result Malorum had expected dinners with Palpatine and his aides, secrets for him alone, and invitations to Palpatine's apartments to 500 Repulica, all of which he never received. Additionally, Malorum could be easily frustrated by taunts that were more personally directed. Malorum had taken great pleasure in taking Yoda's quarters as his office and was pleased by the grandeur of the halls leading to it. He shared the same enthusiasm with Palpatine's personal office in the Senate building. Malorum felt the tattered Jedi Temple was a symbol of the Empire's power, and that it was proof that having Force Sensitivity wasn't enough, but it was how one used the dark side that mattered. Malorum was considered introverted, unpleasant, and not likeable at all; his assistant Hydra shared these traits to a greater level.The Last of the Jedi: Against the Empire Malorum received training in the use of the lightsaber, wielding one with a red blade, though he preferred to run, and only engage in combat if necessary, or as a tactic. His fighting style was described by Ferus Olin as relying on agility but lacking grace, having strength but not knowing how to use it efficiently, and Malorum was emotionally fuelled by aggression as the main source of power. Malorum had little Force-sensitivity.The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia So little that Ferus suspected he would be unable to sense his presence, and so little that Ferus was shocked that Malorum had a lightsaber never mind. Malorum was described by Ferus as having the Dark Side humming within him as he drew upon his anger. Malorum attempted to use telekinetic abilities and physical augmentation to catch his lightsaber and safely jump over the pit at the same time but lost control and was unsuccessful, the attempt costing Malorum's life. Ferus stated the failure to jump over the pit and telekinetically retrieve the lightsaber was due to Malorum straining and making an elementary mistake of an early year Jedi student. Being blinded by the need of the moment, allowing emotion to get in the way, and allowing the fear of being disgraced by losing his lightsaber to cloud his mind. Malorum had a great sense of intuition which he referred to as his "river". In his youth he thought he was smarter than everyone, but later came to realize it was another sense greater than him. His main frustration was that he couldn't control in the way he wished. He directed this intuition at Ryoo Thule, and learned that she suspected Senator Amidala's child was alive. thumb|right|168px|Malorum's lightsaber.Malorum wore a maroon almost black zeyd-cloth robe with a hood. Malorum made use of a variety of weapons, such as a blaster, a wrist rocket, and a lightsaber. Additionally he owned a private starship. *The Last of the Jedi: The Desperate Mission *The Last of the Jedi: Dark Warning *The Last of the Jedi: Underworld *The Last of the Jedi: Death on Naboo *The Last of the Jedi: Return of the Dark Side *The Last of the Jedi: Secret Weapon *The Last of the Jedi: Against the Empire *The New Essential Guide to Droids *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia *The Essential Reader's Companion Category:Grand Inquisitors Category:Humans Category:Inquisitors Category:Males