11006
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Covell
Covell
4794

Captain Covell was a human Imperial officer that served the Galactic Empire and was stationed on Toshara, a moon in the Outer Rim Territories, in 3 ABY. That year, he came into possession of a Crimson Dawn datapad containing sensitive information about the criminal organization. By 3 ABY, Covell had joined the Galactic Empire and achieved the rank of captain in the Imperial Officer Corps. He was stationed on the Outer Rim moon Toshara in 3 ABY, where he came into possession of a datapad containing information about the Crimson Dawn crime syndicate. Realizing that he could sell the information to the rival Pyke Syndicate, Covell stored the data at the Imperial Forward Base on Toshara and traveled to the Pyke market in Toshara's capital city, Mirogana. thumb|right|230px|Covell stored the datapad at an Imperial base on Toshara. Covell eventually approached the thief Kay Vess in the market, knowing that the young thief had connections with the Pyke Syndicate. Covell proceeded to inform Vess of the Crimson Dawn datapad he had at the Imperial base and commanded Vess to pass along their willingness to exchange the information for a cut of deals made by Gorak Palas, the Pyke's underboss on Toshara. Refusing to pay Vess for passing along the message, Covell ended the conversation by invoking his name and military rank. Vess later infiltrated the Imperial facility and stole the tablet for herself before facing the decision of whether she would be best served selling Covell's information to the Pyke Syndicate or back to Crimson Dawn. Covell was a human with dark skin, black hair, and brown eyes. He spoke Galactic Basic with a Core Worlds accent. While at the Pyke Market, Covell wore his Imperial officer's uniform, an Imperial kepi, black gloves, and a rank insignia plaque. Covell appeared in the 2024 video game Star Wars Outlaws, developed by Massive Entertainment and published by Ubisoft. In the game, interacting with Covell will start the intel quest "Impressing Gorak." During the quest, Vess has the option of taking the datapad to the Gorak, thus increasing their reputation with the Pykes, or instead taking it to the Twi'lek Eleera Soi and increasing their reputation with Crimson Dawn. Regardless of the player's choices, Vess will not mention Covell's name to either of the syndicate leaders, despite his initial demands. *Star Wars Outlaws Category:Captains Category:Humans Category:Individuals of unspecified gender Category:Individuals with he/him pronouns Category:Officers of the Galactic Empire