11097
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Alfreda_Goot
Alfreda Goot
9443

and red |feathers= |eyes= |skin= |cyber= |families=new |parents=new |partners=new |siblings=new |children=new |affiliation=*Mandalorians *Darth Vader *Slag Flats |masters= |apprentices= }} Alfreda Goot was a female Togorian mercenary who became a bounty hunter after washing out of Fenn Shysa and Tobbi Dala's covert elite police training program on Mandalore during the reign of the Galactic Empire. thumb|left|150px|Alfreda Goot attacked Han Solo During the Imperial occupation of Mandalore that followed the Clone Wars, outlawed Mandalorian Protectors Fenn Shysa and Tobbi Dala were covertly enlisted by the Mandalorian people to train elite police forces for the planet. A trainee in the program, Alfreda Goot washed out to become a mercenary, though not before she managed to acquire a set of supercommando armor. A ruthless killer, Goot worked as a bounty hunter in the employ of Darth Vader of the Galactic Empire and minor crime lord Slag Flats, though she was possessed of only mediocre skill as a mercenary. After the Battle of Yavin, Alfreda Goot attempted to establish a reputation by collecting on the lucrative bounty for Han Solo placed by Jabba the Hutt. Reasoning that it would be easier than bringing Solo to the Hutt on the planet Tatooine by force, Goot concocted a scheme to use Princess Leia Organa, a Rebel leader and ally of Han's, to lure Solo to the Dockside Cafe in Mos Eisley under the pretenses of a race. There, Goot arranged for eight aliens, including a Twi'lek named Karlo, to await her arrival and provide backup. On Ord Mantell, where Solo and Organa were vacationing, Alfreda Goot disguised herself by clipping her whiskers and hiding her eyes with optical sun-shields to purchase a starship and four weeks provisions from the Twi'lek outfitter Cabet Lom. She then boarded the Millennium Falcon, Solo's modified freighter, to kidnap Organa and taking the princess' signet. Returning to Lom, Goot had his droid deliver her challenge&mdash;a race to the Dockside Cafe, with Leia's signet as proof of the stakes&mdash;to Solo as he played fan-tan in Ord Mantell's Fifteen Moons Casino. With the Falcon in pursuit, Goot left for Tatooine. Initially convinced that Goot was in fact Leia herself, trying to demonstrate that her skill was equal to his own, Han Solo became entangled in an Imperial conflict over the fighter cockpit and unconscious body of Darth Vader, which he had unknowingly taken aboard the Falcon as cargo. Threatening Vader's life with an explosive device, Solo coerced Imperial loyalist Captain Sodarra into aiding him in his mission, and arrived at the Dockside Cafe to confront Goot. Solo's legendary luck proved to be more than Goot's rudimentary skills could handle, and he was able to shoot her in the chest, killing her and rescuing the Princess. Alfreda Goot was a female Togorian with a small frame and prominent cheekbones. After the Battle of Yavin, Goot had long, flame-red hair in addition to her green fur, which she wore in small braids. Goot also wore ring-shaped piercings in her right ear. After washing out of the Mandalorian police program, Goot worked as a low-rent mercenary. She desired to make a name for herself, and saw Han Solo's bounty as an opportunity to do so. Despite her mediocre skills, Goot developed a reputation as a ruthless killer. thumb|right|200px|Alfreda Goot's armor could protect her from blaster fire. Alfreda Goot wore a suit of cobbled-together Mandalorian supercommando armor. The blaster armor was gray in color, made of duralloy, and electronically enhanced the wearer's strength with a micropower plant. The armor's helmet was equipped with a rangefinder and translator device, and its forearm armor contained four retractable somniject-poisoned blades in each gauntlet. In addition to these weapons, Goot carried a pistol and used a black leather strap to restrain prisoners. The Togorian also wore a utility belt, in which she carried gas capsules of somniject antidote. In her race with Han Solo, Goot flew a space yacht with distinctive lines, resembling a pear-fruit with a wide base and narrow fore. }} Alfreda Goot first appeared in Scoundrel's Luck, a 1990 West End Games solitaire adventure written by Troy Denning and illustrated by Francis Mao. Goot's history was expanded upon in the Star Wars Insider article The History of the Mandalorians by Abel G. Peña, including art depicting Goot by Joe Corroney. Scoundrel's Luck presents many branching paths with a variety of outcomes. As The History of the Mandalorians establishes that Goot lured Solo to the Dockside Cafe, but was ultimately unsuccessful in her hunt, this article assumes that the canonical path is one in which Solo kills Goot and rescues Leia. In one potential path, Solo crashes on the planet Mon Torri, cracking the Falcon hyperdrive actuation diode. Goot provides Solo with a replacement, allowing him to proceed to Tatooine and spring her trap. There exists a discrepancy between Goot's appearance as described in Scoundrel's Luck, with red hair and green eyes, and as pictured in The History of the Mandalorians, with green fur and orange eyes. Alfreda Goot is one of several candidates for the "bounty hunter on Ord Mantell" mentioned by Han Solo in Star Wars: Episode V The Empire Strikes Back. Others include Skorr, Cypher Bos, and a fan-eared bounty hunter.The Essential Reader's Companion *Scoundrel's Luck *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia *The Essential Reader's Companion Category:Bounty hunters Category:Females Category:Mandalorian Protectors Category:Mercenaries Category:Togorians