11102
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/The_Brief_Reign_of_Future_Wraiths
The Brief Reign of Future Wraiths
6000

The Brief Reign of Future Wraiths was a popular Corellian opera underwritten by members of House Valorum. A company of Bith had toured the opera across the galaxy for twenty years by 32 BBY. In that year, the company staged The Brief Reign of Future Wraiths at the Coruscant Opera, which was attended by Supreme Chancellor Finis Valorum and many other senators. The Brief Reign of Future Wraiths was an opera from the planet Corellia that was funded by two members of the influential House Valorum on the planet Coruscant, in addition to a number of other notable works they had supported. thumb|right|250px|The Brief Reign of Future Wraiths made a long-awaited return to Coruscant (pictured) in 32 BBY. The Brief Reign of Future Wraiths was popular and critically acclaimed, serving as a mainstay at the Mirrsteel Grande Opera House on the Kwenn Space Station.Lords of Nal Hutta In 52 BBY,Cloak of Deception states that The Brief Reign of Future Wraiths had been performed by the Bith opera company for twenty years, which, given The Essential Reader's Companion places the events of Cloak of Deception in 32 BBY, places the beginning of the company's tour in 52 BBY. a company of Bith began performing the opera in venues of the operatic world across the galaxy. In 32 BBY, The Brief Reign of Future Wraiths had a long-awaited return to Coruscant, where it was performed at the Coruscant Opera. The son of the opera's financiers, Supreme Chancellor Finis Valorum of the Galactic Republic, was in attendance for the returning performance, driving up ticket prices and making them as difficult to obtain as Adegan crystals, a rare type of lightsaber crystal. Keeping with customs, Valorum arrived late to the performance, receiving standing applause from the audience while he and his aide, Sei Taria, entered. Before taking a seat in his family's reserved balcony, Valorum nodded to a private balcony opposite his, which contained Republic senators Orn Free Taa, Toonbuck Toora, Passel Argente, Edcel Bar Gane, and Palpatine, along with the latter's aides Kinman Doriana and Sate Pestage and Taa's consort. Also in attendance throughout the building were Senators Bail Antilles, Horox Ryyder, and Tendau Bendon. Prior to the beginning of the performance, Palpatine and the senators in his balcony discussed recent developments about Valorum's budding tax plan. Palpatine rejected Toora's request for more questions about his own political ideals as the beginning of the performance drew near. The Brief Reign of Future Wraiths was first mentioned in James Luceno's 2001 novel Cloak of Deception. The fifty-sixth issue of the De Agostini magazine The Official Star Wars Fact File written by Iain Lowson and released around January 22, 2003, referred to the title of the opera as an ironic one in that it alluded to PalpatineDarth Plagueis as a "wraith" who ultimately engineered Valorum's downfall. *Cloak of Deception *Lords of Nal Hutta Category:Corellian culture Category:Operas