11125
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Kel_Algwinn
Kel Algwinn
5407

Kel Algwinn was a male Human student at the Sith Academy on Korriban during the Jedi Civil War. Sometime before Revan and his companions arrived on Korriban, Kel Algwinn had received a Sith Medallion from Yuthura Ban and joined the Sith Academy. His Sith Master berated him numerous times for being too trustworthy and too willing to show weakness. Although Algwinn considered himself weak, in actuality he was not as corrupted by the dark side as the other Sith hopefuls in the Academy. This caused him to have doubts about his place at the Academy. When the Jedi and former Sith Lord Revan infiltrated the Academy in his search for the Star Map on the planet, he attempted to persuade Kel to become a Jedi. Algwinn was conflicted by the different viewpoints presented to him, but before he could come to a decision, he was killed when the residents of the Academy attacked Revan after discovering that he was a spy for the Jedi. Unlike other Sith hopefuls, Kel kindly greeted Revan when the two of them first met. He was doubtful about himself and his abilities and questioned if the Sith were really for him. Although he knew the Sith Code and could recite it by memory, he could never understand it. Kel's Sith Master told him many times that he was too trustworthy and too willing to show weakness. Like other Sith hopefuls, Kel Algwinn wore a gray uniform. He used a single-bladed red lightsaber. thumb|right|280px|Kel Algwinn as a Jedi Padawan Although canonically Kel Algwinn does not join the Jedi Order, the player as Revan can successfully persuade him either to do so, or to simply leave the Sith. Either option will cause him to depart from the academy. If the player suggests that Kel join the Jedi before the destruction of Dantooine, he or she can talk to him in the training room of the Jedi Enclave, where Kel is now dressed as a Jedi Padawan and wears blue robes. If the player chooses to talk to him, Kel will say that he did not think that the Jedi would give him a chance due to him being a former Sith student, but instead of what he thought, the members of the Jedi Council gave Kel a warm welcome and explained to him that anyone who abandons the dark side were always welcomed to return to the light side. He also acknowledged he had a road ahead of him and told Revan that he had a Jedi Master and that he could not thank Revan enough. If the player suggests that Kel join the Jedi after the destruction of Dantooine, Kel will leave the Sith and join the Jedi but the player will not be able to talk to him on Dantooine afterwards. If the player is a dark-side character, after discovering Kel's doubts, the player has numerous options on what to do. The player can: tell Uthar Wynn or Yuthura Ban about Kel's doubts&mdash;after which Kel disappears from the academy, taunt him into fighting and kill him, or speak with him and convince him that the dark side is where he belongs. *Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic Category:Humans Category:Individuals with he/him pronouns Category:Males Category:Sith of Revan's Sith Empire