11338
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Star_Wars:_The_Corellian_Trilogy
Star Wars: The Corellian Trilogy
16486

|cover artist=Drew Struzan |illustrator= |editor= |publisher=*Bantam SpectraThe Essential Reader's Companion *GuildAmerica Books *Random House |first date=February 2 1995Ambush at Corellia |last date=October 1995Showdown at Centerpoint |media type=Novels |timeline=18 ABY |num books=3 |preceded by= |followed by= }} Star Wars: The Corellian Trilogy is a trilogy of novels written by Roger MacBride Allen&mdash;Ambush at Corellia, Assault at Selonia, and Showdown at Centerpoint. All three installments were released in 1995 by Bantam Spectra. The novels are set in 18 ABY and chronicle the Solo family's visit to Corellia. Sometime after the release of Showdown at Centerpoint, the Science Fiction Book Club published an omnibus collecting the full Corellian Trilogy into a single volume. On February 20, 2007 the abridged audiobooks were released digitally by Random House Audio and on June 28, 2011 the novels were released by Del Rey as ebooks. Well aware that the galaxy was filled with dangerous surprises, Leia Organa Solo did her best to see that her children grew up with something resembling a normal family life. As the New Republic's Chief of State, she needed to attend the trade conference on Corellia to help restore economic vitality to that troubled star system. But Corellia was Han's homeworld, and Leia saw no reason not to combine the diplomatic mission with a family vacation. The Solos would just travel ahead in the Millennium Falcon instead of waiting for the official delegation. No fanfare, no problems... Except that Han and Chewie found an old Imperial assassin droid snooping around their ship...several New Republic Intelligence agents had disappeared in the Corellian system recently...and, oh yes, immediately upon the Falcon arrival, someone threw a rather warm reception for the Chief of State and her family&mdash;complete with turbo-laser cannon. Includes three novels&mdash;Ambush at Corellia, Assault at Selonia and Showdown at Centerpoint&mdash;in one volume. Chief of State Leia Organa Solo travel to Corellia for a trade summit in the hope of opening up the insular and distrustful sector to the New Republic. The Solo family intends to turn the trip into a vacation, though Han is put on edge when a New Republic Intelligence agent, Belindi Kalenda, warns him of the dangerous unrest percolating in the sector. The five worlds of the Corellian system are inhabited by three primary species – humans, Drall, and Selonians. Years of isolationism have greatly withered the Corellian economy, exacerbating historic tensions among its native cultures, and there are rumors of the sector separating from the New Republic. Kalenda also travels to Corellia, using the Solo delegation as cover, but is shot down by an unknown enemy who clearly knew of her secret plans. She survives a crash landing. Once on Corellia, Leia selects Ebrihim, an elderly male Drall, to serve as a tutor for Jacen, Jaina, and Anakin during their stay. The scholar takes the family on a tour of an archaeological site, where young Anakin spots suspicious soldiers. His attunement to the Force leads the children to discover an immense and complex machine of unknown origin or purpose buried beneath the guarded location. Elsewhere, Luke Skywalker accompanies Lando Calrissian on his latest business venture. Lando is determined to find a wife – it's good business after all, and asks Luke to come along to make him appear more reputable. Their search leads to near disaster on Leria Kerlsil, where Lando almost weds a vampiric life-witch. Then the wife hunt brings them to Sacorria, where Lando meets the charming Tendra Risant, but heavy-handed local authorities chase the offworlders from the planet before Calrissian and Risant can build a true connection. As the trade summit begins on Corellia, Leia encounters a visiting Mara Jade, who delivers a message from Pharnis Gleasry of the Human League. The spokesman of the humanocentric ideological group issues an astounding ultimatum – to heed the word of the league lest entire stars explode. The message includes a map of stars in the Corellian sector, with countdowns to their destruction highlighted. One of the stars has already exploded. Han alerts Luke to this astonishing Starbuster plot in the hope of preventing cataclysm among other star systems. Just then, the Human League sets a match to the growing tinderbox of racial tensions in the Corellian system, as coordinated riots erupt across the five worlds. Ebrihim, his droid Q9-X2, Chewbacca, and the children flee aboard the Millennium Falcon to nearby Drall. Accompanying this unrest is the inexplicable shutdown of communications and even hyperspace transit within the system. This prevents Luke and Lando from entering the Corellian system, prompting them to return to Coruscant. Lieutenant Kalenda escapes just prior to the mysterious interdiction, likewise bound for Coruscant. At this time, the mastermind leader of the Human League reveals himself – it is Han Solo unscrupulous cousin, Thrackan Sal-Solo. For his twisted amusement, Sal-Solo forces Han to fight a captive Selonian revolutionary named Dracmus. Dracmus believes there may be more to the Starbuster plot than the Human League. After they are imprisoned together, Dracmus helps Han escape into tunnel network created by the Selonians. They leave the planet aboard a rickety Selonian cone ship bound for Selonia. At the trade center, Leia, Mara, and the rest of the delegates are held by Human League hostages takers. Using the Force to distract the guards, Leia reclaims her lightsaber from her quarters and uses it to slash into Mara's room, where Mara uses a remote-control device to summon her starship, Jade's Fire. The two women flee Corellia, heading toward Selonia as well. On Drall, Ebrihim leads the children and Chewbacca to the home of his aunt, Marcha. She informs Ebrihim of an archeological dig on the planet. Examining imagery from the dig, the children are able to confirm that the Drall site contains mysterious machinery that is identical to machinery found on Corellia. Ebrihim quietly arranges for the children to explore the excavation. Anakin, with a precocious combination of Force ability and a supernatural affinity for machinery, is able to activate the device at the site, revealing it to be an enormous, ancient repulsor. Ebrihim and Marcha explain that each world in the Corellian system must have one, for it has been long speculated that an ancient, highly advanced culture made possible the peculiar assortment of worlds in the system by artificial means. After Mon Mothma is briefed on the Corellian crisis, she suggests that Luke, Lando and Kalenda contact Gaeriel Captison of Bakura to assembled a specialized fleet of four ships that can bypass the enormous Interdiction field/Legendsinterdiction field]] barricading the system. The task force plans a diversionary raid on Selonia before moving toward the real target: Centerpoint Station. A gargantuan space station of unknown origins that occupies the gravitational fulcrum between the twin worlds of Talus and Tralus, Centerpoint appears to be the source of the interdiction field. The Bakuran task force emerges in Selonia, arriving to encounter enemy insurrectionists vessels, as well as Jade's Fire and Han's rapidly falling coneship. Mara and Leia rescue Han and Dracmus from the doomed vessel. One of the four Bakuran warships is crushed by a sudden blast of repulsor energy emerging from Selonia. To help out in the battle, Lando boards his ship Lady Luck and discovers a message of warning from Tendra: a huge fleet is amassing in the Sacorrian system, destined for Corellia. The crisis escalates as the second star on the Starbuster hit list detonates. The New Republic is able to relocate most of the populace to safety in time. The third star listed, Bovo Yagen, is orbited by worlds with populations in the millions. There will not be enough time to evacuate the system. Han, Leia and Mara set down on Selonia and are taken captive by the ruling Overden. The Overden speaker, Kleyvits, demands that the Chief of State grant her world indepencance. The battered Bakuran fleet arrives at Centerpoint, finding the station abandoned. It becomes clear Centerpoint is the weapon being used as the Starbuster, sending gravitic bursts through hyperspace at targeted stars. Lando realizes that the way to stop advanced alien technology is with more advanced alien technology. A blast from one of the planetary repulsors could offset the pulse from Centerpoint Station. It becomes imperative to capture one of the planetary repulsors. Anakin's activation of the Drall repulsor alerts Thrackan Sal-Solo and prompts him to send his Human League troops to secure the device. Sal-Solo's soldiers capture Ebrihim, Chewbacca, and the children. Sal-Solo drops the systemwide communication blackout to issue a villainous announcement that he controls the Drall repulsor, and that he has taken Han and Leia's children captive. This turns the sentiments of the family-focused Selonians in the Solos' favor, and with Darcmus' help they are able to overthrow Kleyvits and secure the captives' release. Thrackan Sal-Solo's true masters are the Sacorrian Triad, a secretive council made up of representatives from the human, Drall, and Selonian species. The opportunistic Sal-Solo has overstepped his bounds by seeking to secure power for himself. In an effort to rein him in, the Triad drops the systemwide interdiction field to bring their vessels onto the scene. The New Republic takes advantage of the newfound mobility to launch a rescue mission to Drall, where they are able to secure the hostages and the repulsor, as well as capture Sal-Solo. In a space battle of Centerpoint Station, the vessels of the Sacorrian Triad tangle with the Bakuran fleet. Gaeriel Captison's flagship is critically damaged, and she heroically sacrifices herself and the ship to punch a hole in the Triad formation. New Republic reinforcements commanded by Admiral Ackbar outmaneuver the Triad vessels, but Centerpoint Station is still counting down to its next detonation. On Drall, Anakin intuitively activates the planetary repulsor and uses it to jam Centerpoint Station, thus sparing Bovo Yagen. The Triad insurrection founders. In the aftermath of the crisis, Aunt Marcha is appointed governor of the Corellian sector. Lando and Tendra, each impressed by the other in the face of crisis, begin to make wedding plans. Though Corellia was part of George Lucas’ original roster of planetary names during the development of Star Wars, it was not depicted in the Expanded Universe until the publication of The Corellian Trilogy. Author Roger MacBride Allen offered the high concept of a system mysteriously engineered by an advanced, vanished race, and introduced the Centerpoint Station – constructs that would later be attributed to advanced aliens who may have also constructed the Maw. Centerpoint Station would figure prominently in the New Jedi Order and the Legacy of the Force novel series. The Corellian Trilogy shines more of a spotlight on the Solo children, continuing their development as characters. These books gave Anakin Solo a knack for technology as well as a tendency to follow his own instincts. *Book 1: Ambush at Corellia *Book 2: Assault at Selonia *Book 3: Showdown at Centerpoint *Omnibus: The Corellian Trilogy File:TheCorellianTrilogy-SFBC.jpg|Hardcover Omnibus of The Corellian Trilogy File:Corellian_Omnibus.jpg|Audiobook of The Corellian Trilogy *Champions of the Force *The Essential Reader's Companion |part1=Ambush at Corellia |part2=Assault at Selonia |part3=Showdown at Centerpoint }} Category:Legends novel series