11447
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Kulless
Kulless
4363

, and |habitat= |diet= |language= }} Kulless were a sentient species from the planet Gerres Gule. Members of the species were bipedal, with a round torso and a thick tail. In 24 BBY, the Kulless Shrivel Braittrand competed on the professional Podracing circuit, piloting a Podracer of his own design. Braittrand was particularly favored on the SoroSuub Facility track. The Kulless were a sentient species of bipeds. Their torso was muscular and barrel-shaped, with long arms that terminated in four-fingered hands. Their legs were shorter, with three anterior toes and one posterior toe. The Kulless had a thick tail that reached to the ground. As exemplified by Shrivel Braittrand, they had brown pigmentation and their skin was dotted with some lumps. The Kulless face was quite flat with deep-set eyes, black in coloration, and a prominent brow. They had a stubby nose, and white teeth behind pale lips. The Kulless evolved on Gerres Gule, a planet located in the Mid Rim region of the galaxy and in the general region of the Dragonflower Nebula.The Essential Atlas Individual Kulless were found offworld from as early as 24 BBY. Around that time, the Kulless Shrivel Braittrand traveled the galaxy as the chief mechanic for the Podracer Boles Roor. Roor, a Sneevel, eventually gave up racing to return to his career has as a glimmik singer, creating an opening for Braittrand on the circuit. Scrapping his former employer's Podracer, Braittrand constructed an entirely new vehicle that he named the Kulless Squall. This Podracer was highly maneuverable and became one of the more impressive vehicles on the professional circuit. Braittrand drew upon his many years with Roor for experience, and was particularly favored on the SoroSuub Facility track on Sullust.Star Wars: Racer Revenge: Prima's Official Strategy Guide He raced against the likes of Sebulba the Dug, Teemto Pagalies, and Ody Mandrell. The Kulless first appeared in Star Wars: Racer Revenge, a video game developed in partnership between LucasArts and Rainbow Studios. It was released in 2002 for the PlayStation 2 platform. In the game, the species was not named, but was represented by Shrivel Braittrand. He was later identified as a Kulless in the Star Wars: Racer Revenge: Prima's Official Strategy Guide published by Prima Games in February 2002. The Kulless were also mentioned in The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia under entries for Shrivel Braittrand and Gerres Gule. *Star Wars: Racer Revenge *Star Wars: Racer Revenge: Prima's Official Strategy Guide *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Mid Rim sentient species