11441
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Red_Guard
Red Guard
14010

|formed= |founded=c. 32 BBY |fragmented= |reorganized=19 BBY |dissolved= |restored= |affiliation=*Galactic Republic **Office of the Supreme Chancellor }} The Red Guard, nicknamed Redrobes, was an elite organization of bodyguards trained to protect Supreme Chancellor Palpatine, the head of state of the Galactic Republic. Its first members were drawn from the ranks of the Senate Guard. Guardsmen noted for loyalty and efficiency were transferred into the Red Guard; Senate Commandos&mdash;regarded as the best and the bravest soldiers of the Senate Guard&mdash;were also assimilated into the Chancellor's private security unit. The Red Guard served as Chancellor Palpatine's protectors prior to and throughout the Clone Wars, a galaxy-wide civil war between the Republic and the Confederacy of Independent Systems. After the Republic's transition into the Galactic Empire was completed by the end of the war in 19 BBY, the Red Guard was reorganized into the Emperor's Royal Guard by the newly-appointed Emperor Palpatine. thumb|left|150px|A Red Guard in full uniform The formation of the Red Guard was initiated shortly after the election of Supreme Chancellor Palpatine in 32 BBY. For centuries, the Senate Guard, in addition to providing security to the elected officials of the Galactic Senate, served as the elite bodyguards to the Galactic Republic head of state. Allegations of corruption undermined the Senate Guard's reputation, leading to calls for the creation of a separate unit for the Chancellor's protection. The Senate Guard's traditional role as the Supreme Chancellor's security service detail was ultimately supplanted after several assassins infiltrated its ranks in an apparent conspiracy to murder Palpatine. Though the plot was thwarted by the intervention of Jedi Master Ronhar Kim, Senator Viento saw the incident as a prime example as to why the Chancellor needed a unit that was independent from the Senate Guard and more closely monitored by the executive branch. The end result was establishment of the Red Guard, a group composed of soldiers chosen from the old Guard's best and most loyal members. Even some of the elite Senate Commandos were transferred into the ranks of the new unit.Galaxy at War Afterward, Chancellor Palpatine's further public appearances normally saw him flanked by a pair of Red Guards, especially during the Separatist Crisis. The sight of the Republic's leader and his private guards was interpreted as a sign of the heightened security within the Republic that was on the verge of a galactic civil war. For example, when Palpatine presided over the trial of Ahsoka Tano, members of the Red Guard were on the dais with him standing watch. Despite the advocacy for the Red Guard's creation and the Chancellor's initial show of preference for maintaining the Senate Guard as his protectors, the Red Guard was regarded as a controversial topic. Some members of the Senate, believed that the Red Guards were unconstitutional, absent of a formal act or approval from the legislature. However, in large part because such accusations ran the risk of violating the new security laws established by Palpatine, any objections were very rarely voiced.Star Wars: Attack of the Clones: The Visual Dictionary'Star Wars: The Complete Visual Dictionary The Red Guard continued to exist in its capacity as the private security force of Chancellor Palpatine and acted as his emissaries throughout the Clone Wars, the conflict that resulted from the Separatist Rebellion against the Galactic Republic. Senate Commandos&mdash;including regular guardsmen&mdash;were still occasionally retained as the Chancellor's bodyguards during the war.Star Wars: The Clone Wars film By the near end of the Clone Wars, the Red Guard's reputation was mixed between respect for the skills of its members, and mystery regarding the specific details of its organization. Although its members were acknowledged as highly-trained soldiers by Grand Master Yoda of the Jedi Order, their full strength and numbers remained confidential to outsiders.Labyrinth of Evil With the dark side of the Force surrounding the Chancellor, and the secretive nature of the Red Guard, the Jedi High Council came to suspect that the Dark Lord of the Sith had infiltrated the ranks of Palpatine's bodyguards. thumb|right|250px|Chancellor Palpatine and [[Anakin Skywalker/Legends|Anakin Skywalker, flanked by two Red Guards]] During the Battle of Coruscant in 19 BBY, the Red Guard protected Chancellor Palpatine alongside their blue Senate Guard counterparts, clone troopers, and even the Jedi.' They also aided in the defense of Coruscant's Senate District in Galactic City under the command of Jedi General Mace Windu. As the fighting wore on, some of the Guard's members even expressed anxiety over Palpatine's refusal to retreat to a safer location. Following the Republic victory on Coruscant, Chancellor Palpatine revealed himself to the Jedi as Darth Sidious, the enigmatic Dark Lord of the Sith who eluded the Council's attempts to discover him throughout the Clone Wars. He used his various emergency powers and the programmed loyalty of the Clone Army to reorganize the Republic into the Galactic Empire with himself as its Emperor. Under the New Order, the old Senate Guard was ultimately phased out. Emperor Palpatine reorganized his red-robed bodyguards into the Emperor's Royal Guard. Although the Red Guard originated from the ranks of the Senate Guard, they differed from their blue counterparts both aesthetically and in the design of their armor and equipment. Red Guards wore face-concealing helmets with a darkened visor, visually reminiscentImperial Sourcebook to those worn by the Sith-affiliatedDarth Plagueis Thyrsus Sun Guard, in contrast to the Senate Guards' face-revealing helmets. Furthermore, they used a meter-long force pike as a primary weapon while concealing their crimson armor beneath a voluminous red robe. Their force pikes were also considered lethal, in stark contrast to the stun rifles utilized by their blue counterparts. thumb|Red Guard concept art. The Red Guard did not make its first appearance in the Star Wars: The Clone Wars television series until the fifth season episode "The Lawless." *Jedi Quest 4 *Jedi Quest: The False Peace *Star Wars: Episode II — Attack of the Clones 1 *Republic 61 *Republic 63 *Jedi: Yoda *Republic 64 *The Clone Wars: Decide Your Destiny: Crisis on Coruscant *Obsession 2 *Boba Fett: Pursuit *Labyrinth of Evil *Star Wars: Episode III Revenge of the Sith junior novelization *Star Wars: Episode III — Revenge of the Sith 1 *Star Wars Battlefront: Elite Squadron *Coruscant Nights I: Jedi Twilight *Coruscant Nights II: Street of Shadows *Young Jedi Knights: Delusions of Grandeur }} *Tag & Bink: Revenge of the Clone Menace *Star Wars: Attack of the Clones: The Visual Dictionary *Star Wars: Revenge of the Sith: The Visual Dictionary *Dressing a Galaxy: The Costumes of Star Wars *Star Wars Chronicles: The Prequels *Star Wars: The Complete Visual Dictionary *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia *Star Wars: The Official Starships & Vehicles Collection 22 *Galaxy at War *Star Wars: Beware the Sith *Star Wars: The Ultimate Visual Guide: Updated and Expanded Category:Galactic Republic soldiers Category:Organizations of the Office of the Supreme Chancellor