11466
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/FG_8T8-Twin_Block2_Special
FG 8T8-Twin Block2 Special
5554

The FG 8T8-Twin Block2 Special was a podracer design produced by Farwan & Glott prior to the Invasion of Naboo. The 8T8-Tracer's design was unusual in the fact that the cockpit was joined to the engines forward of their intakes via fixed, fully faired brackets. By contrast, all other podracer designs featured separate gondolas which trailed the pod's engines and were fastened to them with flexible cords which transmitted commands input by the vehicle's pilot to the engines, which were in turn bound by energy binders. With the Twin Block2 Special, the need for such devices was eliminated, making the craft bear more of a resemblance to a traditional airspeeder. However, this configuration also put the pilot at greater risk of injury or death from head-on collisions. Because of this threat, the pod put heavy emphasis on turning, acceleration and braking power over speed. The cockpit was aerodynamic and fully enclosed, including a factory-equipped ejection system rare in factory customs and luxury lines. Despite this, the model is among the slowest podracers on the market due to its weight and overbearing pilot assistance. The podrace pilot Neva Kee flew a Twin Block2 Special during the Boonta Eve Classic won by Anakin Skywalker in 32 BBY. Kee performed very well in the first lap of the race, but in the second lap he simply vanished from the track. He was believed to have disappeared somewhere in the Dune Sea of Tatooine. San Maxus also piloted one before it was destroyed during a race on Mon Gazza. Maxus was nearly killed in the collision. During 1 ABY, when the Galactic Civil War was intensifying, a spacer acquired a podracer that looked very similar to the FG 8T8-Twin. This podracer was believed to be a mere replica, and not the same vehicle piloted by Neva Kee. The cover art Jedi Quest: The Dangerous Games depicts Anakin Skywalker piloting Neva Kee's pod. The story does not appear to have any connection to Neva, however, and the vehicle does not appear in the story. Skywalker actually pilots the rebuilt podracer of Ratts Tyerell. *Episode I Adventures 6: The Hunt for Anakin Skywalker *Star Wars: Episode I Racer *The Clone Wars: Crash Course *Star Wars: Episode I Incredible Cross-Sections *Star Wars: Episode I Insider's Guide *The New Essential Guide to Characters *The New Essential Guide to Vehicles and Vessels *Star Wars: Complete Cross-Sections *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia *Endless Vigil Category:Farwan & Glott products Category:Podracer models