11544
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Valiant_(Thranta-class_War_Cruiser)
Valiant (Thranta-class War Cruiser)
5027

The Thranta-class War Cruiser Valiant was the sister ship of Courage and Fidelity. When Alderaan disarmed after the Clone Wars, Valiant and its sister ships were assigned to escort the Alderaanian War Frigate Another Chance, which had been turned into an armory ship, carrying the military's surrendered weapons away from the planet. The escort ships' computers were slave-rigged to follow Another Chance into hyperspace and defend it from attacks, however Valiant became separated from the convoy and lost the transponder signal from the ship. Unable to complete its programmed duty, the ship's automated systems chose to return to the planet to receive updated orders. These orders would never come, due to the destruction of Alderaan. It would remain among the debris of the Graveyard of Alderaan until 7 ABY, when the ship's systems responded to the IFF beacon of Tycho Celchu's X-wing during the Battle of the Graveyard and attacked the Corrupter in his defense. At that time, Rogue squadron was acting without the official consent of the New Republic government and so had decided to use identification signatures from their home planets, rather than the official New Republic frequency. Celchu, an Alderaanian native, decided to use a pre-disarmament military frequency, which happened to correspond to the beacon used by Another Chance. The droid crew interpreted it as an attack on the ships they were programmed to defend, despite the different class of vessels the beacon was assigned to. After the battle, the ship was taken by the Rogues back to their base in the Yag'Dhul system; after some work they were able to use it to excellent effect in the closing stages of the Bacta War against Ysanne Isard. The ship was placed under the command of Aril Nunb, a Sullustan and sister of Nien Nunb after Emtrey was jokingly suggested as a possible candidate and Booster Terrik declined the post. The warship later participated in the fight against the Super Star Destroyer Lusankya at Thyferra, where she attacked the Star Dreadnought's main engines. The ship remained under the command of Nunb after the battle. *X-Wing: The Bacta War *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia *Star Wars: The Official Starships & Vehicles Collection 29 Category:Starships of the New Republic Category:Thranta-class War Cruisers