11568
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Lorana_Jinzler
Lorana Jinzler
28146

|gender=Female |pronouns=She/her |height= |mass= |hair=Dark |feathers= |eyes=Gray |skin= |cyber= |families=Jinzler family |parents=*Lorana's father *Lorana's mother |partners= |siblings=*Dean Jinzler *2 other siblings |children= |affiliation=*Jedi Order *Galactic Republic |masters=Jorus C'baoth |apprentices= }} Lorana Jinzler was a Human female Jedi Knight, born on the planet Coruscant in 49 BBY, and was the former Padawan of Jedi Master Jorus C'baoth. Jinzler, alongside Jedi Knight Obi-Wan Kenobi and his Padawan Anakin Skywalker, were instrumental in uncovering the conspiracy plot to sabotage the negotiations of a mining dispute and assassinate the negotiators, which included her own master. After the successful mission on Barlok, Jinzler was promoted to Jedi Knight. She soon had a heated confrontation with her jealous younger brother Dean, leading to her decision to accompany C'baoth, Kenobi, Skywalker, and sixteen other Jedi on the starship Outbound Flight. During the Battle for Outbound Flight, Jinzler remained in the ship's core, surviving the battle alongside fifty-eight crew members and passengers. After the battle, Jinzler and the Chiss Syndic Thrass piloted the damaged vessel away from the battlefield. Jinzler and Thrass sacrificed themselves to save the surviving passengers of Outbound Flight, as the ship crashed onto a planetoid in The Redoubt. Lorana Jinzler was born in 49 BBY on the planet Coruscant. Her parents were both employees at the Jedi Temple on Coruscant, who worked as electronics technicians. As a result, they dreamed that one of their children would be trained as a Jedi. Lorana was the third of the four Jinzler children. Ten months after Jinzler's birth, she was inducted into the Jedi Order. However, her parents were soon dismissed from their jobs in the Temple, in accordance with the Jedi Code regarding emotional attachments and relationships. Jinzler's parents kept track of her Jedi training via a friend who still worked at the Temple. This led to her younger brother Dean becoming jealous of her, only finally meeting Lorana face to face years later at the initiation of Outbound Flight. Jinzler was a good-natured and humble apprentice, making her relationship with her master, Jorus C'baoth, unusually tense, especially with C'baoth's gruff tone and high expectations. His attitude that Jedi were superior to non-Force users disturbed Jinzler, but she was too timid to confront him or say anything to address the issue. As a result, Jinzler was not as close to C'baoth as other Padawans were to their Jedi Masters. She was often unsure of the Jedi's role, unlike her master, who believed Jedi had the power and inherent role to rule others who were not Force-sensitive and watch over them. Due to her Jedi training, Jinzler had no contact with her family. However, she unknowingly observed them in multiple ways. Her family saw her with C'baoth and other Jedi at city festivals. Dean prided himself on being neglected by his parents, as they often compared him to Lorana and wondered why he wasn't also Force-sensitive. For this reason, Dean did not speak well of his sister Lorana, which was to burden both of them later. Dean also constantly followed Lorana and C'boath around Coruscant and knew where she and her master went on missions, despite Lorana never realizing he was stalking her. Jinzler accompanied her master as he interrupted a meeting between Supreme Chancellor Palpatine and his aide, Kinman Doriana. C'baoth demanded more funding for his proposed Outbound Flight Project, insisting that its importance outweighed any of the other petty problems the Republic was facing. Doriana suggested a compromise: if C'baoth could resolve a mining strike on the planet Barlok, it would free up enough immediate funds to finish the project. As C'baoth and Jinzler prepared for Barlok, C'baoth informed her she had to behave like a Jedi when she traveled as a Jedi. She wanted to object as C'baoth had a belief Jedi were inherently superior; a trait she did not share with her master. She knew her master had studied the mysteries and subtleties of the Force for many years, gradually growing in power, while she was a young Padawan learner, who had barely started her own path. Therefore, she knew she was not in a position to challenge C'baoth. Her master had given her an order, and it was her job to follow. When the Jedi arrived on Barlok, C'baoth instructed Jinzler to tour the city with Obi-Wan Kenobi and Anakin Skywalker, as there was nothing for her to do in the negotiations. Up until then, Jinzler was content with remaining behind while her master negotiated. However, hearing her master instruct her to go with Kenobi and Skywalker greatly displeased her. Jinzler followed Kenobi and Skywalker inside the eating establishment Panky's. Soon after, Jerv Riske, a former bounty hunter, who served as the personal bodyguard of Magistrate Passel Argente of the Corporate Alliance entered the diner. Kenobi was the only one of the trio who recognized him, and he instructed Skywalker to head over to Riske, while Jinzler remained with him. Riske soon determined the Jedi were trying to spy on him and quietly left the premises while Skywalker and Kenobi were distracted. However, Jinzler decided to quietly follow Riske through the city. Shortly after Jinzler left Panky’s, she lost track of Riske and also realized that she had forgotten to get Kenobi's comlink frequency before splitting up. She also knew better than to interrupt C'baoth while he was busy with negotiations, and she should only contact him in the case of a catastrophe. Jinzler calmed herself with the Force, enabling her to sense which direction Riske had gone, in hopes of tracking the bodyguard down in an alleyway. After they both turned down a few different alleyways, Riske confronted Jinzler in one alleyway. Riske informed her that he was intrigued by C'baoth's presence and inquired Jinzler about the objectives of the Jedi Council in sending its representatives there, as he suspected they were playing politics. Jinzler told Riske that Kenobi was intrigued with Riske being on Barlok, but it was her idea to follow him. In response, Jinzler asked Riske why he was there. He replied he was trying to keep Argente alive. Riske then told Jinzler that she and the other Jedi were clearly not after Argente, nor was he after the Jedi. Therefore, he bluntly told Jinzler to stay out of his way, and he'd stay out of hers. The two then parted ways. Later that day, Jinzler found Kenobi on a bench across from Panky's and informed him that Riske was convinced Argente was in danger, and that she was certain Riske would not have been so open with her if the Jedi were after Argente. That night, Jinzler, Skywalker and Kenobi quietly followed the Brolf Duefgrin; a member of a gang, after Kenobi witnessed the Brolf teenager stealing a pair of burst thrusters, so his gang could make homemade missiles. The Jedi tracked the Brolf down the alleyways, until he met up with Jhompfi, another Brolf conspirator. The Jedi could not confirm if the burst thrusters were transferred, but as the Jedi suspected, the Brolfs did successfully complete their intended transfer, and they parted down different alleyways. After the Brolfs' transferred the burst thrusters, Jinzler convinced Kenobi that she should track Jhompfi, as he was an adult, while Duefgrin, being a teenager would be more unpredictable, and therefore was more suited for Skywalker to track. As Jinzler followed Jhompfi, she knew she had the advantage, as Jhompfi was an amateur, unlike Riske who was a professional, with a professional's bearing and subtlety. She also knew that Jhompfi being an amateur was far more dangerous than Riske, but at the same time, he would be easier to deceive. Jinzler tracked Jhompfi to a poor housing ring in the city, where she watched him from a row of hedges. There, she was cornered by Vissfil and his brother. Jinzler allowed the brothers to capture her, as it gave her the opportunity to speak to their leaders and discover who was behind the plot to assassinate Argente. As Vissfil and his brother seized Jinzler, she used the Force to lift her lightsaber from concealment under her tunic, sending it into the nearby row of hedges she had been spying on the brothers from moments prior. The brothers then searched her for any weapons. They confiscated her comlink and removed her belt, confirming she had no weapons. The Brolfi brothers then knocked out Jinzler with a strong sedative administered through her back and brought her into one of the homes in the Covered Brush housing ring, where they met "Defender," which was Doriana's codename. While Jinzler remained unconscious, Doriana arrived in the Covered Brush neighborhood. Doriana immediately recognized the unconscious Jinzler, but he did not inform the Brolf conspirators she was their captive. He assumed Jinzler had left her lightsaber with Kenobi and Skywalker as her lightsaber would be a giveaway of her identity. The Brolfi insisted Jinzler was harmless while she was unconscious, but Doriana was concerned as Jinzler had seen Jhompfi holding the burst thrusters. Soon after, Kenobi attempted to contact Jinzler, but despite him not knowing that the terrorists had destroyed her comlink, Kenobi knew she was in trouble with Jhompfi's guild in the Covered Brush. Jinzler remained unconscious the entire night, never hearing the conversations between Defender and the Brolf terrorists. Meanwhile, Kenobi ran into Riske who apologized to him about Jinzler's disappearance, and informed Kenobi that Jinzler was not combat savvy and he almost planted a tracker on her, which would have not only revealed her location, but that of Jhompfi's guild. When Kenobi contacted C'baoth, he informed Kenobi and Skywalker he could not sense Jinzler's Force-signature, but he confirmed she was still alive as he otherwise would have sensed his Padawan's death. Soon after, Kenobi and Skywalker searched the city, until Kenobi sensed Jinzler's lightsaber crystal in the Covered Brush neighborhood and determined Jinzler was nearby. Kenobi used the Force to activate the lightsaber from down the alley as a distraction, before retrieving the lightsaber. He and Skywalker then entered the house with Jhompfi's guild. Skywalker stood in guard position over Jinzler's limp form, with his lightsaber pointed towards a pair of Brolfi conspirators. The Jedi received a hypo from one of the Brolfs, and confirmed Jinzler was given a strong sedative, rather than poison. The next day, Jinzler entered the conference with C'baoth through marketplace. She was determined, despite looking a bit pale and being tentative in her steps. Jinzler thanked Kenobi and Skywalker for the rescue the previous night. C'baoth warned the other Jedi that there was still danger to both the negotiators and the negotiations themselves. He instructed Jinzler to remain with Kenobi where it was safe during the negotiations. After C'baoth left, Kenobi informed Jinzler the Brolfi conspirators seemed obsessed with their interpretation of the Corporate Alliance's image, as they assumed the Corporate Alliance was trying to steal their planet's wealth. In response, Jinzler informed Kenobi that she did not understand that kind of thinking. Soon after, the missile created from the burst thrusters by Doriana and the Brolfi conspirators roared into the conference. Jinzler attempted to stop the missile, knowing its trajectory and intent was destroy the negotiators, including Argente, but she failed to stop the missile. In the conference room, C'baoth stopped the missile at the last moment, destroying it with his bare, outstretched hand, ending the Corporate Alliance-Barlok mining guild negotiations exactly as Palpatine and Doriana had planned. As a result of the Mission to Barlok's success, C'baoth quickly received the necessary funds to finish Outbound Flight and immediately began organizing a group of Jedi Masters, Jedi Knights, and civilian colonists to travel to the Unknown Regions. During the process, he promoted the twenty-two-year-old Jinzler to Jedi Knight and invited her to accompany him on Outbound Flight long journey. At first, Jinzler rejected both offers, as she felt she was not ready to depart from the galaxy, but C'baoth quickly convinced her she was ready. Shortly afterwards, Kenobi and Skywalker also accepted C'baoth's invitation to join the flight. They had agreed with the Jedi Council they would not stay on Outbound Flight for its entire duration, departing the starship before it entered the Unknown Regions. The three Jedi were C'baoth's final recruits onto the starship. Jinzler and C'baoth flew to Yaga Minor where crew members assembled the final parts of Outbound Flight. There, Jinzler spoke with the maintenance workers, and one of the workers, Brooks, informed Jinzler that a member of their crew was also named Jinzler. Brooks asked Lorana if Dean Jinzler was a relative of hers. After Lorana informed Brooks she was taken from her family when she was ten months old and had no knowledge of her family, Brooks led her to where Dean was seated inside Outbound Flight mess hall. To Lorana's surprise, Dean was the same dark haired man who she constantly saw around Coruscant as she traveled across her homeworld with C'boath. She quickly realized Dean's hair was the same shade as hers, and his eyes were the same odd shade of gray as hers. Brooks asked Dean if he knew the woman besides him and to Lorana's surprise, Dean revealed she was his sister. After Brooks left the Jinzler siblings alone, Dean began to vent his jealousy on her. Dean felt he grew up in his elder sister's shadow, feeling their parents expected him to be perfect. He informed Lorana that he had studied her and C'boath and she was far from perfect. He expected that Jedi were supposed to be the prime examples of this perfection, which Lorana had made too many mistakes to achieve. While staring at the activation stud of Lorana's lightsaber, an angry Dean insisted that she passed him her green-bladed laser sword. Lorana told Dean the amethyst came from people who had helped C'baoth in Coruscant's mid-levels. Dean corrected her, informing his sister the amethyst was a gift from their parents. Their parents gave the amethyst to a group of citizens from the mid-levels, who were once rescued by Lorana and C'baoth. As a result, the citizens gave Lorana the amethyst for her lightsaber on behalf of her and Dean's mother and father. After taking back her saber, a heartbroken Lorana apologized to Dean for his hatred towards her and their parents, as well as his perceived loss and his pain she could not heal. Lorana told Dean she hoped he found his way and his healing, before she left, while holding back her tears. Shortly afterwards, Captain Pakmillu and C'baoth found Lorana. She informed them that she had not seen her quarters. After further thought, she informed them was not necessary to see her quarters, as she had already decided that she was going to travel on Outbound Flight. Lorana's argument with Dean made her realize there was nothing left in the galaxy worth waiting for and she could not wait to depart on Outbound Flight. During Outbound Flight exploration mission, Jinzler was far more reasonable and humbler than C'baoth, and during the initial stages of the flight, she was frequently found trying to appease the disgruntled passengers. When Outbound Flight was attacked in warning by Commander Thrawn, many lives unintentionally perished, and Lorana felt C'baoth's fall to the dark side. She tried to reach her former master in time to help him, but she sensed his death by the second wave of assault droids. When the outer ships were mostly destroyed by Doriana, the only survivors were Lorana and the fifty-seven passengers C'baoth had imprisoned in the central storage core. While attempting to save the ship, Lorana met Syndic Thrass, who was Thrawn's brother, and Jorj Car'das on the bridge of D-One. She and Thrass had planned to land the ship on a planetoid in The Redoubt, with D-Three on the top, allowing them to use the small ship there to get aid. But the surviving passengers had moved to D-Four. With no other choice but to land D-One on the bottom to save the colonists, Lorana and Thrass chose to sacrifice their lives for the survivors in D-Four. Nearly fifty years after Lorana's death, Car'das fulfilled his promise to her and transmitted information on the mission to locate the remains of the Outbound Flight Project to Dean. Dean traveled to the wreckage of Outbound Flight with the Jedi Luke and Mara Jade Skywalker when it was rediscovered by the Chiss. There, the Skywalkers found Lorana's skeletal remains next to Thrass's remains in D-One's cockpit.Survivor's Quest Lorana Jinzler was also remembered by one of the Survivors of Outbound Flight, Jorad Pressor, who had known her as 'Jedi Lorana' back when he was a child. For this reason, Dean Jinzler was released from a trap that was set by the Survivors to try resolving the problem diplomatically. Lorana's green-bladed lightsaber, with the amethyst gem attached to the activation stud, was recovered by Luke Skywalker, as he and Jade Skywalker searched the ruins of Dreadnaught-One. Skywalker mistakenly assumed the saber was C'baoth's, but Dean informed Skywalker the saber was Lorana's. During the Skirmish aboard Dreadnaught-Four, Skywalker and Jade Skywalker used Jinzler's lightsaber to destroy a droideka. After the Skywalkers informed Dean of the lightsaber's destruction, he was initially upset as Lorana's lightsaber was the last physical connection he had to his late sister. However, he soon realized he was at peace and did not need a physical memory of Lorana anymore. Dean's journey to the place Lorana sacrificed her life helped Dean release the hatred he had for his elder sister. Dean realized it was a fitting end for Lorana's lightsaber, as her weapon was sacrificed to protect the Survivors of Outbound Flight, just like Lorana had sacrificed her own life to save the surviving people onboard forty-nine years prior. Lorana was a Human female Padawan, later Jedi Knight, who was about medium in height, with dark hair and striking gray eyes. To most people, Jinzler appeared to be a normal Jedi. She was humble, good-natured and had the sense of global awareness that came from knowledge of the Force. However, she lacked self-confidence, something which was not helped by working with Jorus C'baoth, who was very sure of himself, and expected any Padawan of his to feel the same. Jinzler was often too timid to confront her master or address anything regarding C'baoth's ideology that Jedi were superior to non-Force users, despite it profoundly disturbing her. Obi-Wan Kenobi recognized this and attempted to make her feel that she belonged and should not feel so unsure when the two worked together briefly. Jinzler's lack of confidence extended to her combat skills, and as a result, she was not very combat savvy. Jinzler was caring, evidenced by the way she sacrificed herself to save the Survivors of Outbound Flight. She was sorry her brother disliked her, telling him to let go of his anger. Just before her death she instructed Jorj Car'das to be a messenger to Dean, in hopes that her message would finally enable Dean to let go of his hatred to her and their parents. Lorana Jinzler was skilled at tailing people, and she picked up a few tricks during her years of training as a Jedi. She knew amateur conspirators such as the Brolf Jhompfi were easier to deceive. Therefore, she varied her distance from him, by ducking through alleys and side streets to get ahead of him. She also periodically altered her appearance, putting the hood of her robe up or down, or using a cord to tie her hair back instead of letting it hang free. Lorana Jinzler was armed with a green lightsaber. She wore light colored Jedi robes. Lorana Jinzler first appeared as her skeletal remains in the 2004 novel Survivor's Quest by Timothy Zahn. Jinzler was later pictured in the cover art of the Japanese version of the 2006 novel Outbound Flight, with the artwork done by Tsuyoshi Nagano.Outbound Flight *Outbound Flight *Survivor's Quest *The New Essential Chronology *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia *The Essential Reader's Companion Category:Coruscanti Category:Females Category:Humans Category:Individuals with she/her pronouns Category:Outbound Flight residents Category:Post-Ruusan Jedi Knights