11801
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Kime_Enanrum
Kime Enanrum
4419

}} Kime Enanrum was a well-known sculptor who lived during the last decades of the Galactic Republic. In 23 BBY, the sculptor created an ice statue that was displayed at a fundraiser in the Jrade District on the planet Coruscant. However, the intricately-crafted statue was accidentally destroyed by the notoriously maladroit Representative Jar Jar Binks, much to the sadness of Enanrum. thumb|right|200px|Represantive Jar Jar Binks, after destroying Enanrum's ice statue Kime Enanrum was a famous sculptor who worked during the waning decades of the Galactic Republic. At the time of the Separatist Crisis in 23 BBY, Enanrum sculptured an elaborate statue from ice, and organized a gala fundraiser to take place in Jrade Plaza of the planet Coruscant's posh Jrade District where the stature would be displayed. Unfortunately for the statue, Representative Jar Jar Binks of Naboo was invited to the gala. Binks, who was infamous for his clumsiness, managed to accidentally tuck the tablecloth upon which the statue rested into his cummerbund. At the same time, he attempted to catch tumbling canapés he had knocked from a nearby waiter, and, as a result, the Gungan Representative pulled down the statue, which shattered to pieces. The incident was reported by HoloNet News, and Enanrum, saddened by the loss of the statue, gave an interview in which the sculptor expressed regret for bringing the statue at the gala in the first place. A successful sculptor, Kime Enanrum became renowned in that line of work. Enanrum took time in creating the statue for the gala fundraiser, and the resulting piece was considered intricately-crafted. Despite knowing that Binks, who had just two months prior demonstrated his clumsiness by deactivating the sky dome at the opening of the Endangered Shreebird Aviary, was invited to the gala, Enanrum nonetheless decided to display the statue, though the sculptor later regretted that decision. When the statue was destroyed, Enanrum became crestfallen. Kime Enanrum was first mentioned in HoloNet News Vol. 531 #45, an in-universe issue of the HoloNet News written by Pablo Hidalgo and Paul Ens and published on the HoloNet News website in 2002. *Star Wars Annual 2008 *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Individuals of unspecified gender Category:Individuals of unspecified species Category:Individuals with unspecified pronouns Category:Sculptors