11850
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/R60_T-wing_interceptor
R60 T-wing interceptor
6938

The R-60 T-wing interceptor was an interceptor originally designed to replace the A-wing. Unfortunately for the Rebellion, the end result turned out to be a poor replacement for the craft. thumb|left|200px|A T-wing under attack from a Royal Guard TIE Interceptor Like the A-wing, the T-wing was a light fast-response starfighter. The ship's speed was similar to a TIE Interceptor, but it also included hyperdrive capability. It had three H-K 5J Mk.II afterburning ion engines and was armed with light laser cannons and proton torpedo launchers. The interceptor had several flaws, namely its cheap construction using poor-quality materials. Its shields were additionally too light for its role. With shield and hull strength similar to that of the Z-95 Headhunter, this craft would not last long if it was hit accurately by even a medium-power salvo. On top of this, its navicomputer was obsolete, full of coding errors, and had limited memory. Maneuverability was another disappointment to its designers, as it was less maneuverable than the A-wing. As per the A-wing, weapons were light, with only dual laser cannons being fitted in order to maintain maneuverability. However, the T-wing's warhead load was nearly equal to that of an X-wing, making it a good multi-role fighter in the hands of a competent pilot. thumb|left|200px|A T-wing on patrol near a Cargo Facility 2. The Rebels used this fighter for only a short time before deciding to sell it to neutral factions, hoping to at least gain a profit. Unexpectedly, the T-wing proved very effective in the hands of such pilots as the nomadic pirate leader Ali Tarrak, and the fighter quickly became popular with independents and proliferated across the galaxy. Additionally, it was popular in the Outer Rim due to its low price and favorable service packages offered by Hoersch-Kessel salesmen. Although it never saw much use in the Rebel Alliance, they nonetheless created a model for the starfighter to distribute to attendees of Remembrance Day, their analog to Empire Day. thumb|right|250px|T-wing styles 1 (left) and 2 (right), each exhibiting different engine designs. *Star Wars: TIE Fighter: Defender of the Empire *Star Wars: X-Wing Alliance *Star Wars: X-Wing vs. TIE Fighter: Balance of Power Campaigns *Star Wars: Jedi Knight: Mysteries of the Sith *TIE Fighter: Defender of the Empire: Official Secrets & Solutions *TIE Fighter Collector's CD-ROM: The Official Strategy Guide *Star Wars: X-Wing Alliance: Prima's Official Strategy Guide *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia *Rebellion Era Campaign Guide *Stay on Target Category:Hoersch-Kessel Drive, Inc. products Category:Starfighter classes Category:Starship classes of the Alliance to Restore the Republic