11888
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Chankar_Kim
Chankar Kim
5524

Chankar Kim was a Jedi Master who lived during the last years of the Galactic Republic. Sometime around 22 BBY, Kim took Tallisibeth Enwandung-Esterhazy as her Padawan, even though the girl was weak in the Force. When fellow Jedi Knight Obi-Wan Kenobi was captured during a mission on the planet Geonosis, Kim was part of a Jedi strike team sent to rescue him. In the ensuing battle, Kim was killed, leaving Enwandung-Esterhazy without a master. thumb|right|Tallisibeth Enwandung-Esterhazy, Chankar Kim's Padawan Chankar Kim was a Force-sensitive Jedi Master of the Jedi Order/Legends during the final years of the Galactic Republic. Three months before the outbreak of the Clone Wars in 22 BBY, she took Tallisibeth Enwandung-Esterhazy, nicknamed "Scout," as her Padawan, although even Jedi Council member Mace Windu and other Jedi failed to see what potential Kim saw in the Force-weak girl. Three months after Kim took Scout as her Padawan, Jedi Knight Obi-Wan Kenobi was captured by the Confederacy of Independent Systems during a mission on the planet Geonosis. Windu assembled a group of Jedi to free them, and Kim was part of the task force. Before leaving, she told Scout that her Padawan would accompany her on the next mission. However, the rescue mission turned into a full-scale battle against the Confederate droid army, and Kim fell in the fight in the Petranaki arena, leaving Scout an orphaned Padawan with a case of survivor's guilt. Three years later, shortly before participating in a Jedi Temple Apprentice Tournament at the Jedi Temple on the planet Coruscant, Scout recalled the circumstances in which she had learned Kim would be her master and the circumstances of Kim's death. After Scout won the tournament, she received another Master, Jai Maruk. However, on their first mission together, Maruk was killed too, leaving Scout once again without a Master. Chankar Kim took Scout as her Padawan, despite many Jedi failing to see potential in the seemingly ungifted girl. As a member of the Jedi Order, Kim was Force-sensitive and trained to wield the Force. She was capable enough to fight in the Battle of Geonosis, although despite being a Jedi Master, she became one of many Jedi killed in the fighting. Chankar Kim was first mentioned in Yoda: Dark Rendezvous, a novel written by Sean Stewart and published in 2004. *Yoda: Dark Rendezvous *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Individuals of unspecified gender Category:Individuals of unspecified species Category:Individuals with she/her pronouns Category:Jedi assault team members Category:Post-Ruusan Jedi Masters