11856
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Tyffix
Tyffix
6095

Tyffix was a Gand Jedi Master who served the Jedi Order during the Clone Wars. In 21 BBY, Tyffix and their Padawan, Cal, were dispatched to lead a Republic clone trooper force on the planet Thustra when the world's populace attempted to secede from the Republic. Shortly after arriving on the planet, the Republic forces were attacked by the native Sephi, and Tyffix was killed when a suicide bomber destroyed the Republic command center. thumb|left|While a Jedi Master, Tyffix took Cal (pictured) as their Padawan. A Force-sensitive Gand, Tyffix was a member of the Jedi Order who held the rank of Jedi Master during the Clone Wars between the Galactic Republic and the Confederacy of Independent Systems. Forced to wear a breath mask in order to survive in an oxygen-rich atmosphere,The New Essential Guide to Alien Species Tyffix selected the young Human Cal as their Padawan, training the youth to think like a warrior. In 21 BBY, Tyffix and Cal were part of a Republic task force sent to the planet Thustra when the native Sephi population wanted to secede from the Republic. What was originally planned to be a show of force soon turned into a bloody battle, in which Sephi suicide bombers inflicted heavy casualties on the Republic troops. While discussing strategy with fellow Jedi Master Tyr and a clone officer inside the Republic command center, Tyffix was victim to the Sephi tactics when a suicide bomber destroyed the command tent, killing all present except Tyr's Padawan, Pix, whom her Master had Force-pushed out of the tent before the explosion. Cal saw the explosion from afar and called out for his master. Cal and Pix then sent a message to the Jedi and Republic on the planet Coruscant informing them of Tyffix and Tyr's deaths and calling for help. Tyffix taught Cal that thinking like a warrior and a conqueror would be the only way to survive the Clone Wars, a lesson the Padawan took to heart but one that ultimately led to the Padawan's death later during the battle. As a Jedi Master of the Jedi Order, Tyffix was Force-sensitive and trained to wield the Force at a high level. The Jedi wore a breath mask and donned brown-colored Jedi robes. Tyffix appeared in Jedi: Yoda, the fifth and final issue of the Star Wars: Jedi comic series, which was written by Jeremy Barlow, illustrated by HOON, and released on July 21, 2004. *Jedi: Yoda Category:Gand Category:Individuals of unspecified gender Category:Individuals with unspecified pronouns Category:Jedi Generals Category:Post-Ruusan Jedi Masters