11957
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Hanna_Ding
Hanna Ding
9637

|apprentices= }} Hanna Ding was an Arkanian female Jedi who studied at the Jedi Order's Temple academy on the planet Coruscant, the capital of the Galactic Republic. Ding underwent the trials to become a Padawan and passed them by the time of the Clone Wars, a galactic conflict between the Republic and the Confederacy of Independent Systems. In 19 BBY, Ding participated in the Jedi Temple Apprentice Tournament, organized by Jedi Master Ilena Xan, and managed to advance to the second round. She faced Jedi Initiate Tallisibeth Enwandung-Esterhazy in a duel in the dark, and despite her displaying superior skill, Enwandung-Esterhazy won the fight through the unorthodox means of grabbing Ding's lightsaber blade and forcing her to submit with a right-handed choke-hold. thumb|right|300px|The Jedi Temple where Hanna Ding trained Hanna Ding was a Force-sensitive Arkanian female born around 33 BBY. She became a member of the Jedi Order and lived at the Jedi Temple on the Galactic Republic's capital planet, Coruscant. During her time at the academy, she underwent training in the ways of the Force and later graduated to become a Padawan to a Jedi Master. In 22 BBY,The New Essential Chronology when the pan-galactic Clone Wars erupted between the Republic and the Confederacy of Independent Systems, Ding was stationed at the Temple. By this time, she had constructed a green-bladed lightsaber. Ding frequently engaged in practice fights, during which Tallisibeth Enwandung-Esterhazy, a Jedi Initiate, observed her for any weaknesses. thumb|left|250px|The Combat Training Chamber where the Apprentince Tournament was held In 19 BBY, Ding participated in the Jedi Temple Apprentice Tournament, which was administrated by Master Ilena Xan at the Temple's Combat Training Chamber. Ding openly criticized Enwandung-Esterhazy, claiming that she used unconventional trickery and manipulated the rules when she beat Initiate Pax Chizzik. Ding attempted to get Enwandung-Esterhazy disqualified from the tournament, but Chizzik rose to Enwandung-Esterhazy's defense by taking the blame for forgetting the rules. In the second round of the Tournament, Ding was pitted against Enwandung-Esterhazy. As a surprise stipulation, they were instructed to fight in complete darkness with training lightsabers to simulate realistic combat conditions. When Xan signaled the start of the duel, Ding launched a high leap attack from above, but Enwandung-Esterhazy skillfully parried the attack, having observed Ding perform the same opening maneuver in her previous fights. Ding then chased after her opponent with a series of slashes, but Enwandung-Esterhazy responded slyly by fleeing to the spectators in order to escape and even used Xan as a human shield to block Ding's lightsaber. Changing tactics, Ding channeled the Force to slow down Enwandung-Esterhazy's sword hand, allowing her to strike her opponent's thigh with the first of three required cuts to win the match and disarm Enwandung-Esterhazy of her weapon. thumb|right|210px|Tallisibeth Enwandung-Esterhazy, Hanna Ding's tournament opponent Ding demanded that she yield, but Enwandung-Esterhazy refused. Unwilling to attack an unarmed foe, Ding failed to anticipate Enwandung-Esterhazy's next move. She seized the blade of Ding's lightsaber with her right hand and used her left to execute a precise choke-hold on Ding's neck. About to lose consciousness, Ding was forced to surrender after seven seconds and was eliminated from the competition. After Enwandung-Esterhazy emerged victorious in the tournament by besting the formidable Whie Malreaux, Ding was part of the spectators and criticized Enwandung-Esterhazy's method of relying on Malreaux's good nature in order to win, continuing by warning Enwandung-Esterhazy's tricks would not work as well on a live combat situation and would get her killed. Ding had a haughty demeanor typical of Arkanians, often displaying a sense of superiority toward Enwandung-Esterhazy. She was a stickler for official rules and regulations and, on more than one occasion, sought to have Enwandung-Esterhazy disqualified from the Apprentice Tournament. Ding believed that Enwandung-Esterhazy's use of tricks to gain an advantage was a form of cheating. Her fastidious nature made the gritty, close-quarters fighting of hand-to-hand combat unappealing to Ding. She preferred to be standing two paces away from her opponent, allowing her lightsaber to do the fighting for her. Ding's preference for her lightsaber made it her weakness according to Enwandung-Esterhazy. The fear of dying in the Clone Wars lingered within Ding. Ding honed her skills in utilizing the Force in various ways, including telekinesis and Force jumping. In addition, Ding's lightsaber combat skills were polished, as Enwandung-Esterhazy noted. She described it as a circular style of swordplay with fast slashes that continuously changed angles. Ding owned a lightsaber that emitted a green blade. Hanna Ding first appeared in Yoda: Dark Rendezvous, a novel written by Sean Stewart and published in 2004. *Yoda: Dark Rendezvous *Yoda: Dark Rendezvous abridged audiobook *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Arkanians Category:Females Category:Individuals with she/her pronouns Category:Jedi trainees of the Jedi Order