11922
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Abron_Mar
Abron Mar
7290

Abron Mar was an alien lieutenant in Takara's criminal organization. He was known to frequent a cantina located in the Katraasii Spaceport. During the year 10 ABY, the New Republic Jedi Mara Jade was tasked by Ka'Pa the Hutt to find Mar in order re-obtain a stolen Global Communications Transponder device from Takara. Jade tracked Mar to the spaceport, and after cutting off his escape routes, she cornered him. However, Mar had actually laid a trap and rendered Jade unconscious. He then sent her to Takara's stronghold. thumb|left|200px|Abron Mar, after capturing Mara Jade A male member of a green-skinned alien species, Abron Mar served as a lieutenant for the crime lord Takara. Mar was known to frequent a cantina located in the Katraasii Spaceport, on the planet Katraasii. During the year 10 ABY,According to the opening scrawl, Star Wars: Jedi Knight: Mysteries of the Sith takes place five standard years after the events of Star Wars: Jedi Knight: Dark Forces II. The New Essential Chronology dates the events of Jedi Knight to 5 ABY. Using simple math, we can deduce that Mysteries of the Sith takes place in 10 ABY. Takara stole a Global Communications Transponder from his Hutt rival, Ka'Pa. Around the same time, the New Republic, in need of supplies, sent the Jedi Mara Jade to negotiate a deal with Ka'Pa to obtain said supplies. Ka'Pa saw this as a chance to retrieve his stolen property, and tasked Jade in retrieving the GCT device from Takara. The Hutt's agents informed Jade of Mar, and that he would be the key in reaching Takara's stronghold. By the time Jade made it to Katraasii, Mar was present in his favored cantina, surrounded by Gran and Weequay bodyguards. Jade, not wanting to provoke Mar into running off, eventually found the hangar where Mar had parked his personal R-41 Starchaser and sealed the hangar door. Jade went back to the cantina to apprehend Mar, but the lieutenant escaped the cantina while Jade dealt with his cronies. With his ship currently unable to take off due to the hangar having been sealed, Mar opted to run further into the spaceport with two Weequay and lay a trap for Jade. The Jedi fought her way through Mar's men and various Galactic Empire field stormtroopers, and caught a glimpse of Mar and his Weequay heading through a small speeder bay. Mar shut the bay doors on Jade, but the Jedi used a T-4 troop transport to smash through the doors. She continued to follow Mar until she finally cornered him in a storage room. Mar pretended to surrender, allowing Jade to let her guard down and get subsequently hit with a stun blast from behind. Mar then sent her to a prison in Takara's stronghold. Jade, however, eventually recovered the GCT device anyways. Abron Mar enjoyed frequenting a cantina in the Katraasii spaceport. Upon capturing Mara Jade, Mar expressed disappointment in Jade's abilities, and was unimpressed with Ka'Pa's choice of agent. Mar was a member of a species that had green colored skin and three ridges in place of a nose. Mar was armed with an E-11 blaster rifle during the chase with Jade, and had his own personal R-41 Starchaser. Mar wore dark clothing with red stripes at the time, and wore goggles that concealed his eyes. }} Abron Mar first appeared in the video game Star Wars: Jedi Knight: Mysteries of the Sith, which was an expansion pack for the previously released Star Wars: Jedi Knight: Dark Forces II. When Mara Jade moves within close enough to Abron Mar, a cutscene triggers in which she is captured. It is technically possible to kill Abron by sniping him with the Stormtrooper rifle equipped with the E-11 electroscope, before the cutscene can take place, a single shot will make Abron Mar collapse to the ground, but the player will then get the message that completing the mission is now impossible with Abron Mar dead. Mar's voice was provided by Terence McGovern, and appears throughout two levels of the game. Mar's character model was also available as a multiplayer avatar in the game. In multiplayer, Mysteries of the Sith introduced multiplayer personalities, where character models were categorized by profession. Mar was categorized as a scout. *Star Wars: Jedi Knight: Mysteries of the Sith Category:Criminals Category:Individuals of unspecified species Category:Males