11988
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Patricia_Katarn
Patricia Katarn
3735

Patricia Katarn was the wife of Morgan Katarn and the mother of Kyle Katarn. Morgan fell in love with her, and they were married towards the end of the reign of the Galactic Republic. The only memory Kyle had from her was from the time he was crying about something and his mother held him in her arms, making him feel safe and comfortable.Dark Forces: Rebel Agent She was killed one night she was working late around the Katarn estate, when the family's BT-16 perimeter security droid's sensors malfunctioned. Mistaking Patricia for a hostile target, it opened fire, killing her instantly. By that time Kyle was too young and hardly had any memories of her. The Katarn family was devastated by her death, not only emotionally; her work in the farm was essential and a widower father with his underage son struggled to maintain it. One reason Kyle chose to leave his home in his early age, was to alleviate some financial burden from his father. Candice Ondi reminded Morgan of Patricia.Dark Forces: Soldier for the Empire The family kept a 3-D print picture hanging in the Katarn homestead, between the living room and the workshop. During the years the home had been ransacked, Kyle found it askew when he returned in 5 ABY. Tenderly, he rolled it into a cylinder, secured it with a wire and took it with him, until Jan Ors picked him up with the Moldy Crow. Later, Ors found the cylinder and the print in the ship; after an initial bout of jealousy, she recognised her from her eyes. Patricia was a woman of beautiful human traits, with eyes that were inherited by her son. *Dark Forces: Soldier for the Empire *Dark Forces: Rebel Agent *Star Wars: Jedi Knight: Dark Forces II *Star Wars: Empire at War: Prima Official Game Guide *The New Essential Guide to Droids *Star Wars: Empire at War: Forces of Corruption Expansion: Prima Official Game Guide *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Farmers Category:Females Category:Humans Category:Sulonese