11944
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Lena_Missa
Lena Missa
4631

Lena Missa was a female Chagrian Jedi Padawan who learned at the Jedi Order's Temple academy located on the planet Coruscant, the Galactic Republic capital, during the last years of the Clone Wars. Missa had a Jedi Master who accepted her as their Padawan before perishing in 20 BBY. A year later, Missa participated in the Jedi Temple Apprentice Tournament organized by Master Ilena Xan. She made it to the Round of Eight alongside her friend Tallisibeth Enwandung-Esterhazy but was forced to yield after being defeated by Whie Malreaux. Lenna Missa was a Force-sensitive female Chagrian who was born around 34 BBY. She underwent training at the Temple academy and was chosen as a Padawan by a Jedi Master. When her Master died in 20 BBY, Missa went through a grieving period that prevented a number of other Masters from outright choosing her as their own Padawan. In 19 BBY, Missa was one of the participants in Master Ilena Xan's annual Jedi Temple Apprentice Tournament. She bested the two opponents paired with her in the initial rounds, making her eligible to the Round of Eight. She outlasted five other combatants before surrendering to Whie Malreaux when he subdued her with a wrist lock that forced her thumb at an awkward angle. Harboring no ill feelings towards Malreaux, Missa answered his bow with a curtsy and a laugh. Lena Missa was well liked by her peers and considered as witty. She had a very deft touch with the Force and after her Jedi Master died, several Jedi Masters sought for the right to choose her as their Padawan once the appropriate grieving period was over. Missa wielded a lightsaber containing a blue crystal. Lena Missa first appeared in Yoda: Dark Rendezvous, a novel written by Sean Stewart and published in 2004. The exact year of the death of Missa's Master has conflicting versions. In Dark Rendezvous, her master was said to have died in 20 BBY, a year before the Apprentice Tournament. However, according to The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia, published in 2008, her master was killed in the Battle of Geonosis which occurred in 22 BBY. *Yoda: Dark Rendezvous *Yoda: Dark Rendezvous abridged audiobook *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Chagrians Category:Females Category:Jedi Commanders Category:Jedi trainees of the Jedi Order