11952
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Pax_Chizzik
Pax Chizzik
10866

Pax Chizzik was a male Human Jedi Initiate studying at the Jedi Order's Temple academy on the Republic capital planet of Coruscant during the Clone Wars. Charismatic and popular, Chizzik had grown used to unwittingly using mind tricks to help him succeed. In 19 BBY, he dueled the Jedi Padawan Tallisibeth "Scout" Enwandung-Esterhazy during the Jedi Temple Apprentice Tournament. After attempting to mind trick her into conceding, he managed to overpower her and believed he was victorious. However, he was tricked by Esterhazy and ended up losing, though he took his loss in stride. A Force-sensitive Human male, Pax Chizzik was born around 30 BBY and later educated in the use of the Force by the Jedi Order at the Jedi Temple on the Republic capital of Coruscant. When the Clone Wars erupted between the Republic and the Confederacy of Independent Systems, Chizzik remained at the Temple, where he continued to grow skilled in the ways of the Force and lightsaber combat. By 19 BBY,According to The Essential Reader's Companion, the events of Yoda: Dark Rendezvous, which include the Apprentice Tournament, occur in 19 BBY. As Enwandung-Esterhazy having assisted Chizzik in practicing the knots is described as having occurred prior to the events of the novel, it must have occurred by 19 BBY. while in Jedi Master Bear's Climbing and Ropework class, orphaned Jedi apprentice Tallisibeth "Scout" Enwandung-Esterhazy had assisted him in practicing the Twelve Intermediate Knots, including the Mrlssi half-hitch. thumb|right|200px|Chizzik dueled Tallisibeth Enwandung-Esterhazy (pictured) during the Jedi Temple Apprentice Tournament. In 19 BBY, Initiate Chizzik participated in the annual Apprentice Tournament overseen by Jedi Master Ilena Xan, in which he had a chance of being selected as a Padawan to a Jedi Knight or Master. During the first round, he was set against Enwandung-Esterhazy, who had several ideas on how to beat Chizzik but disliked the idea of performing such feats against someone so young. As the duel between the two began, both Enwandung-Esterhazy and Chizzik bowed to one another, with Chizzik remarking that he wished the former well in their combat—a statement she took as genuine. As the match began, Chizzik immediately clashed lightsabers with Enwandung-Esterhazy, laughing as he did so—which, in turn, prompted her to smile back. At this point, he began to Force-influence her, slowly convincing her that she should throw the match and allow him to win. However, a sniffle from Grand Master Yoda snapped Chizzik's opponent back to reality, allowing her to overcome his influence. Chizzik was then briefly overpowered by Enwandung-Esterhazy, with her utilizing her greater size and strength to push him back before he successfully parried against her. He then counter-attacked, nearly overpowering his opponent before pausing. Chizzik then confirmed to Enwandung-Esterhazy that he had felt his influence over her through the Force, comparing it to the Mrlssi half-hitch; however, Chizzik also stated that, while he used it to his advantage, it had been unintentional, claiming that he had never done it before. thumb|left|300px|Jedi Grand Master Yoda (pictured) indirectly contributed to Chizzik's loss. After revealing this to Enwandung-Esterhazy, she dropped her lightsaber. Chizzik was initially confused, but quickly interpreted the gesture as one of surrender. He then approached her, stating his hope that she would not be sent to the Agricultural Corps branch of the Jedi Service Corps, and attempting to help her up in a show of good sportsmanship. However, Enwandung-Esterhazy took his gullibility to her advantage, putting him in a wrist lock and forcing him to his knees. She then released him, apologizing as their duel ended. After the match, the Arkanian apprentice Hanna Ding rushed to Chizzik, coddling him while Master Xan asked if he was alright. Ding then demanded to Master Xan that Enwandung-Esterhazy be disqualified. However, Chizzik himself protested, stating that his opponent had acted within the rules, to which Xan agreed. In the following match between Ding and Enwandung-Esterhazy, Ding used her opponent's victory over Chizzik as a tool with which to taunt her. Enwandung-Esterhazy also tricked Ding at one point during the duel, lunging at Ding as she had with Chizzik before utilizing a different tactic afterward. Following Enwandung-Esterhazy's victory over Ding, Chizzik himself told her that she had taught him much about being a Jedi. Well-liked at the Temple's academy, Chizzik was known to use his Force powers to increase his likability. He was a natural leader, intelligent, and had enormous spirit and charm. Enwandung-Esterhazy believed that he was "born to play a dashing prince in some romantic epic of the last age." Chizzik was also somewhat conceited, treating some challenges like a game under the assumption that he would be regarded by others as a great Jedi Knight, with tales told of his heroics. He was also gullible to an extent, falling for a trick performed against him by Enwandung-Esterhazy. Nonetheless, he was honorable, and accepted his defeat. thumb|right|250px|Chizzik was trained in the Jedi arts at the Jedi Temple on Coruscant (pictured). Chizzik was strong in the Force. While he had exceptionally quick wrists, his footwork was not the best, and he was somewhat "chunky" with his movements. He was known to be extremely quick, capable of performing a fast parry, as well as being able to act rather imaginatively when attacking. Chizzik's manipulation over others, using the Force to make them act in his favor and like him, was believed to be unintentional; however, he still utilized it to his advantage, such as during his duel with Enwandung-Esterhazy. While training in the Jedi temple, Chizzik wielded a green-bladed training lightsaber. Pax Chizzik first appeared in the 2004 novel Yoda: Dark Rendezvous, written by Sean Stewart. *Yoda: Dark Rendezvous *Yoda: Dark Rendezvous abridged audiobook *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Humans Category:Individuals with he/him pronouns Category:Jedi trainees of the Jedi Order Category:Males