12030
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/The_Emperor%27s_Theme
The Emperor's Theme
7487

}} "The Emperor's Theme" is a recurring musical theme of the Star Wars movies. It was composed by John Williams and first appeared in the film Return of the Jedi. It is first heard in the scene when Darth Sidious arrives on the second Death Star, and later is heard in several scenes taking place in the Emperor's throne room. It is a dark vocal piece performed by a foreboding male choir, thematically representing the pure evil that is Sidious. Portions of it also played when he was torturing Luke Skywalker before meeting his demise at the hands of the redeemed Anakin Skywalker. In The Phantom Menace, "The Emperor's Theme" plays whenever Darth Sidious speaks to Nute Gunray or to Darth Maul. A variation of the theme in a major key, "Symponik Nabooalla," is also heard during the parade scene in Theed. In Attack of the Clones, "The Emperor's Theme" is heard in the Lars' garage scene where Anakin confesses to Padmé about his slaughter of the Tusken Raiders. It is also heard in the scene towards the end when Darth Tyranus approaches the Works on Coruscant and meets with Sidious. The theme is most prevalent in Revenge of the Sith. It is played when Yoda, Mace Windu, and Obi-Wan Kenobi discuss Palpatine's intentions prior to Yoda leaving for Kashyyyk; after Sidious bestows upon Anakin the title of Darth Vader; and when the Emperor rescues Vader from Mustafar. In 1999, "The Emperor's Theme" was the background music for the television commercials for The New Jedi Order: Vector Prime. One of the musical pieces in Super Star Wars: Return of the Jedi, played during several stages, incorporates an up-tempo variation of the Emperor's theme as its bridge. The normal version of the theme is included as well and is played on the "Game Over" screen. In Star Wars: X-Wing vs. TIE Fighter, part of "The Emperor's Theme" is played after a mission failure. A more prominent version of the theme is played throughout the final level of Star Wars: Jedi Knight II: Jedi Outcast, "Yavin&ndash;Final Showdown", and is continuously used in the duel against Desann. A variant of "The Emperor's Theme" is the background music for both the main screen and the Korriban areas in Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic. It is also the background music on board the Ravager in Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic II: The Sith Lords. A segment of "The Emperor's Theme" is played whenever the player has gained a dark-side point in the latter game. "The Emperor's Theme" plays during the mission briefing screens in Star Wars: Republic Commando. The theme is played in Star Wars: The Clone Wars Season 5 Episode 16 "The Lawless," when Darth Sidious tells Mas Amedda to prepare his ship, and again when he confronts Darth Maul and Savage Opress on Mandalore. It is also played in the Season 6 Episode 4 "Orders," when Darth Tyranus speaks with Darth Sidious about Order 66. In the Star Wars Rebels Season 4 Episode 12 episode, "Wolves and a Door," a variation of the theme plays when Minister Hydan is talking with the Emperor about the Jedi Temple on Lothal. The theme is heard next in episode 16 when Darth Sidious' hologram revels his true appearance to Ezra Bridger. Prior to the DVD re-release of the movies in 2004, there was speculation that "The Emperor's Theme" would be included in Darth Sidious' scene in The Empire Strikes Back. In the trailer for Angry Birds Star Wars 2, "Join the Pork Side," at the end of the video a short section of the theme is played. In The Last Jedi, "The Emperor's Theme" plays when Luke Skywalker tells Rey that the Jedi allowed Darth Sidious to rise, create the Empire and wipe them out. Later it plays when Snoke tortures Rey with the dark side of the Force in his throne room. In The Rise of Skywalker, the theme is heard throughout the film when Darth Sidious appears or is mentioned by other characters, including the prologue, when the Resistance learns of his survival and throughout the Battle of Exegol. Its appearance in the scene immediately following the Destruction of Kijimi appears to be directly lifted from a track in Revenge of the Sith. The last time the theme is heard in the saga is during final confrontation between Rey and Sidious right before his final demise. *Star Wars Rebels: The Siege of Lothal *Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic *Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic II: The Sith Lords *Star Wars: The Old Republic *Star Wars: The Old Republic: Knights of the Fallen Empire *Star Wars: The Old Republic: Knights of the Eternal Throne *Star Wars: Bounty Hunter *Star Wars: Republic Commando *Star Wars: The Force Unleashed *Star Wars: TIE Fighter *Star Wars: X-Wing vs. TIE Fighter *Star Wars: Jedi Knight: Dark Forces II *Star Wars: Jedi Knight II: Jedi Outcast *Star Wars Battlefront: Renegade Squadron *Vector Prime television commercial *LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures *The LEGO Star Wars Holiday Special Category:Themes and leitmotifs