12000
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Dominus
Dominus
7641

Dominus was a Jedi Master who was active up to and during the Great Sith War. A respected and venerable member of the Jedi Order, Dominus took multiple apprentices, his favorite of which was the Vultan Zona Luka. However, Luka was eventually seduced to the dark side and joined the Brotherhood of the Sith under Dark Lord Exar Kun in 3996 BBY. Not long after, Luka, who had been ordered by Kun to kill her former Master, attacked Dominus in his home. Although Dominus was shocked at his dearest apprentice coming to assassinate him, he still engaged the Vultan in a lightsaber duel. Luka gained the upper hand and struck Dominus down after a brief clash, although the dying Jedi Master gathered the strength to kill his former apprentice with the Force. Dominus, a male, was born in the years leading up to the Great Sith War. He was eventually discovered to be a Force-sensitive and was taken by the Jedi Order to be trained in the Jedi way. Dominus rose to the level of Jedi Master, and over time he became very respected. He took multiple apprentices, including the Vultan Zona Luka, whom he considered his dearest student. After he trained Luka to Jedi Knighthood, Dominus retired to a small hut. right|thumb|308x308px|Dominus at bay. In 3996 BBY, Luka, now under the influence of the spirits released from Dark Lord Exar Kun's Sith holocron, came to Dominus' home. After she revealed her loyalty to the Brotherhood of the Sith, Luka challenged Dominus in battle, as Kun had ordered her and many other fallen Knights to attack and kill their Masters. Dominus, stunned that his favorite student would attack him, drew his lightsaber and dueled the Vultan. Luka gained the upper hand in their brief confrontation and was able to deal a mortal wound to Dominus. However, as the Jedi Master lay dying, he mustered the strength to kill his fallen apprentice with the Force. The scene was later investigated by Jedi Knights Dace Diath, Shoaneb Culu, and Qrrrl Toq, all of whom were surprised that Zona Luka would kill her former mentor and assumed she must have had potent armaments. Dominus held a certain amount of favoritism toward his former student Zona Luka, considering the Vultan to be his dearest pupil. Therefore, he was stunned when Luka, now under the influence of the dark side, attacked him in his home. However, Dominus refused go back on his promise to defend the light, even if it meant killing his favorite apprentice. The Jedi who found his death site were shocked, not able to understand why anyone would want to take him out. The Jedi Master was a grey-skinned being with black eyes and white teeth. Although a respected Jedi Master, by 3996 BBY, Dominus did not possess the aptitude with a lightsaber necessary to best his former pupil Zona Luka in one-on-one combat. However, even as he lay dying, Dominus still had the ability and strength in the light side of the Force to kill Luka. After his murder, his killer was found struck dead by his lightning, atop his empty robes, his body surrendered into the Force. Besides his Force powers and limited saber talents, the Jedi was entrusted with teaching others to become Jedi. Dominus was armed with a blue-bladed lightsaber. He wore a green robe with purple trim, and a sheet of gold that rested on his back and shoulders. Dominus first appeared in the fourth issue of Star Wars: Tales of the Jedi – The Sith War, a story arc of the Star Wars: Tales of the Jedi comic book series. The issue was written by Kevin J. Anderson, illustrated by Dario Carrasco, Jr., and published on November 1, 1995. Dominus received an entry in both the Star Wars Encyclopedia from 1998Star Wars Encyclopedia and A Guide to the Star Wars Universe, Third Edition, Revised and Expanded released in 2000,A Guide to the Star Wars Universe, Third Edition, Revised and Expanded but in both of these reference books his name is misspelled as Dominis. *Tales of the Jedi – The Sith War 4 *Star Wars Encyclopedia *A Guide to the Star Wars Universe, Third Edition, Revised and Expanded *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Individuals of unidentified species Category:Males Category:Pre-Ruusan Jedi Masters