12122
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Mazer_Rackus
Mazer Rackus
8043

Mazer Rackus, a Twi'lek, was a longtime starfighter pilot of the Rebel Alliance. Rackus originally joined the Rebellion at age sixteen, well before the Battle of Yavin, after stealing his first starship from his father and crashing it on a Rebel-held planet. Rackus convinced his Rebel captors of his loyalty to their cause and went on to fly raids for the Alliance for many years, although he always carried with him a bad recollection of his father. Mazer Rackus was born on the Twi'lek homeworld of Ryloth sometime before 16 BBY. He stole his first starship from his father at age sixteen and promptly crashed the vessel on a planet controlled by the Rebel Alliance. The Rebels captured Rackus, and, though he soon convinced them of his "loyalties" to their cause, he later admitted among friends that he was more afraid of facing his father than anything else. Rackus began flying raids for the Alliance as a starfighter pilot from that point forward. By the Battle of Yavin, Rackus had been fighting with the Rebellion for many years.Star Wars: Rebellion: Prima's Official Strategy Guide Mazer Rackus was a Twi'lek of typical appearance for his species. He had pinkish-white skin, red eyes, and long lekku extending from his cranium. However, rather than the luxurious robes traditionally worn by Twi'leks, Rackus usually wore a standard flight suit. He also had a taste for spending money. Although loud and brash, Rackus demonstrated unusual sensitivity for a Twi'lek, hating to see anything beautiful damaged. He was also particularly sensitive of his piloting abilities, and nothing ever happened by accident. Rather than admitting to pilot error, for example, Rackus had an excuse waiting to explain his mishap. Rackus adored speed and risk-taking, as long as it did not cause his ship to crash. He was glad to engage in dogfights with enemy TIE fighters but made sure to avoid Imperial capital ships. He did not necessarily fear death, but he knew capital ships had enough firepower to imperil him and potentially cause another crash, which prompted Rackus to recall wincing thoughts of his father. Rackus possessed mechanical ability in astrogation, repulsorlift operation, starfighter piloting, and starship gunnery. He was technically adept at repairing T-65 X-wing starfighters. Rackus's equipment included a Merr-Sonn Model 44 blaster pistol in a shoulder holster, comlink, macrobinoculars, datapad, hydrospanner, three medpacs, his Rebel uniform, dark starglasses, and his personal X-wing fighter. Mazer Rackus was created for the 1993 West End Games sourcebook Galaxy Guide 9: Fragments from the Rim, written by Simon Smith and Eric S. Trautmann. He serves as a character example of a Rebel operative for use with Star Wars: The Roleplaying Game. Artist Mike Vilardi provided the sourcebook's illustration of Rackus. Rackus later appeared in the 1998 PC game Star Wars: Rebellion as one of the playable characters available to the Rebel Alliance. In gameplay, Rackus is used most effectively as a Special Forces operative in conjunction with fellow Rebel character Ma'w'shiye, both of whom exhibit excellent combat and espionage skills. When paired, they can succeed in the most difficult missions. Galaxy Guide 9 originally described Rackus as possessing "piercing green eyes." However, the original character illustration created for Star Wars: Rebellion depicts Rackus as having red eyes. *Star Wars: Rebellion *Galaxy Guide 9: Fragments from the Rim *Star Wars: Rebellion: Prima's Official Strategy Guide *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Alliance Starfighter Corps personnel Category:Individuals of unspecified gender Category:Individuals with he/him pronouns Category:Twi'leks