12134
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Cut_content_from_Star_Wars:_Knights_of_the_Old_Republic_II:_The_Sith_Lords
Cut content from Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic II: The Sith Lords
48119

Cut content from Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic II: The Sith Lords refers to content which was originally intended to appear in the video game Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic II: The Sith Lords but was not included in the game, or content which can be found in the game files but was not incorporated into the game. There has been some controversy regarding this content. LucasArts pressured developer Obsidian Entertainment to finish the game for a 2004 holiday release, leading many to speculate that the development had been rushed. The game contains a sizable number of bugs, which occasionally cripple game play. Also, some of the content from the game proper appears to be missing; however, much of it can be found inside the game files. The originally planned ending would have provided in-game fates - and in many cases, deaths - for all of the characters who travel with the main player character. In-game, the game ends with Darth Traya revealing the party member's futures. By explaining their futures, instead of showing the events leading up to those futures, it leaves just what happened to the designers of the unreleased KOTOR III. In a gesture to the game's fans, Obsidian Entertainment provided the PC version of the game with many resources meant to be used for the original ending (such as screen plays, voice-acting, etc.), which was abbreviated because of pressure from LucasArts to release the game in time for the Christmas season. Obsidian Entertainment also petitioned to LucasArts themselves for a Content Patch which would restore the content, though LucasArts denied the request. They were extracted and arranged by two users of the Obsidian Forum Community known as "HighPriest" and "Aurora" to produce The Sith Lords Restoration Project. While the files do not resolve everything, they do clarify what would have happened to many of the members of your party, and elucidate many in-game events. *Repairing the Ebon Hawk - While still trying to find a way to Onderon, the Exile can ask Atton how the repairs are going. *Atton Bath Jokes - When Atton describes Nal Hutta, Handmaiden/Disciple chips in about Atton not bathing. *The Red Eclipse Boarding - The Red Eclipse boards the Ebon Hawk. Handmaiden/Disciple/Bao-Dur was supposed to take note while in the cockpit. However, they are stopped by Kreia who incapacitates them and then throws a poison grenade down. Cahhmakt orders his men to throw the party into the cargo hold when stumbling upon the two incapacitated members. *Mandalore and the Ebon Hawk - After returning from Onderon for the first time, Mandalore was supposed to comment to the Exile about the Ebon Hawk and ask where the Exile got it. *Bao-Dur's Anger with Mandalore - After returning from Onderon for the first time, Bao-Dur asks the Exile why she trusts Mandalore to be among them. *Mandalore reinforces his reasons - Mandalore will tell the Exile that the only reason he is with him/her is to gather the clans. *The Exile Dies Again - The party is upset because of what happened in the Jedi Enclave. *It Is Time - Kreia was supposed to come on board the Ebon Hawk and tell Atton that it is time for them to leave for Malachor (or Telos since she stops there first after Dantooine). Kreia takes the Ebon Hawk from Dantooine to Telos. The Exile is forced to find an alternate means of transportation to get there. *Reaching Out - The Exile lies in the medical room unconscious and would reach out to the party members as they are a bit panicked and worried about losing the Exile and stopping Kreia. *HK-50s Attack - Randomly, the HK-50s were to attack the Exile. If HK-47 was in the party, then he was to capture one and torture it to reveal the location of the HK-50 factory on Telos. *Kreia Isn't Fond of Droids Either - After the player has witnessed the message from Bastila/Carth, Kreia will blast T3 with some Force lightning in anger, since the Exile seemed to have a fondness for the droid. *Spar Practice - After Visas joins the party (and has a lightsaber), the player would be able to spar with her under Kreia's supervision. *Bao-Dur Upgrades HK - Like G0-T0, the Remote and T3, Bao upgrades HK, though at first he refuses. *Goto threatens Bao-Dur - If the Exile knows that G0-T0 is actually Goto, then Goto will threaten Bao-Dur that he better take care of the Remote before he finds a permanent solution. Presumably, this comes before Goto "repairs" the Remote himself. This was likely removed since the Goto/Remote destruction scene must be triggered and the player may not find out about Goto being a droid. *Meditation Envy Alternate Lines - When Atton watches the Disciple and the Exile meditate, Mira and Atton say some alternate lines including some about Atton's mentality and behavior ("scratching his equipment" when nobody is looking). *The Disciple's Choice - After Kreia reveals the truth about herself to him, she would goad him into telling the Republic what's happening, but in doing so, he'd endanger the Exile. *Bao-Dur and Mandalore's Second Discussion - Sometime after their first argument, Mandalore goes to Bao-Dur about how he destroyed the Mandalorians and activated the MSG. *The Story of Canderous Ordo - After discovering that Mandalore traveled with Revan and learning the story of the helmet, the Exile can ask T3 if he knew Mandalore. T3 displays a hologram and shows when Revan left (this isn't actually shown). *Ratrin Vhek on the Ebon Hawk - During the Red Eclipse invasion, the Exile could choose to sell Ratrin Vhek into slavery. *The Disciple's Distress Call - Before traveling to Telos, the Disciple calls Admiral Onasi/Admiral Cede about the impending attack on Telos. Included content suggests that he was originally supposed to be a pawn of Atris, referring to the contact as "mistress." *The Handmaiden's Choice - Currently, Handmaiden does not say if she has joined the party on her own free will or of Atris's command. When Brianna would join the party, she would claim that she believes the Exile was right about going to war. Kreia believes her and tells the player that they cannot take her back. *The Holocrons - Throughout the game, if the Exile is female, she'd find Holocrons in various places. She and the Disciple would examine them and would learn new abilities. *Atton Lies to the Exile - When the Exile would ask about Atton's past, likely depending on the influence, Atton could lie to the Exile and later tell Kreia about it. *Atton and T3 Play Pazaak - Atton and T3 play pazaak. T3 apparently wins all of their games. *Atton and Kreia's Plot - After Atton confronts the Disciple on the message he sent to the Republic concerning his whereabouts, Atton would go to Kreia and ask her why they allowed the "Republic Spy" on board. Kreia would tell Atton to wait, and the time would come when she would call upon him. *Teaching Forms - After training the party members as Jedi and learning the forms for himself/herself, the Exile would be able to teach Saber Forms and Force Forms to the party members. *The Astrogation System Locked - After the Exile has viewed the message from Bastila or Carth and T3 has stopped HK-47 from viewing the navicomputer, the Exile could ask T3 about the navicomputer and why it's locked. *The Council's Alternate Lines - During the Jedi Council hologram, there are three lines of alternate dialog from the masters concerning the awaiting echo from Malachor V and Revan's influence. *Handmaiden's Own Volition - Handmaiden could claim she is joining the Exile against the wishes of Atris and her sisters in her first appearance on the Hawk. *T3 showed Disciple the message - Disciple asked T3 to show him the Council meeting hologram. *Kelborn's message - When supposed to return to Onderon, T3 displayed a hologram from Kelborn. *Kreia and the Ebon Hawk - After first meeting Kreia in the morgue, an alternate line has her refer to the docked ship as "The Ebon Hawk" rather than simply not naming it. *Kreia Knows - When Sion arrives to Peragus II, Kreia was supposed to take note of his presence, saying "He has come." *Darth Sion Knows Kreia - When Sion encountered the Exile's party aboard the Harbinger, he would say, "I came to warn you, Jedi. You know not what path you walk." The alternative line is "I have come for the Jedi." *Peragus Equipment - There are unused items in the game files which are assumed to be mining utilities for Peragus: The Vibrocutter (similar to a Vibroblade though less powerful), a Guidon Beacon (a beacon used to stake claims on asteroids that can be used as a quarterstaff), and a Heavy Mining Laser (a Mining Laser similar to the Heavy Weapons from the original Knights Of The Old Republic). *Lt. Yima's Mission - Yima, the one Grenn always talks about, was supposed to give the Exile a mission to expose a corrupt TSF officer in the Czerka docking bays. This is probably connected to the alternate docking bays that can be seen, though are otherwise inaccessible. *Duros Thug - A random Duros thug labled "Masked Attacker" simply attacks the Exile for asking questions. This is probably due to the player asking around about the modified holdout blaster found on a mercenary. He spawns in Entertainment Module 081. *Batu Rem of the GenoHaradan - The false Batu Rem would be revealed to be a GenoHaradan disciple and makes it perfectly clear when he attempts to kill the Exile. *Locked Doors - The locked doors in the Medical Bay and the Ithorian Compound were supposed to lead to now cut areas. The first cut area isn't used in the game at all, but the second one is probably the room that Carth is in. *Bounty Hunters of the GenoHaradan - Luxa's Bounty Hunter contacts are revealed to be GenoHaradan agents hunting the Exile. *Bao-Dur's Return to Citadel Station - Bao-Dur would take the Exile back to Citadel Station and, from there, he'd track the Ebon Hawk to the Telos Polar Region instead of going through the Czerka base in the restoration zone. *Czerka Takes Control - Czerka would completely take over the modules, threatening the Ithorian herd. The Exile would go to the communications station and call for help, since the TSF couldn't do anything else. This is likely connected to Jana Lorso's lines about taking over Citadel Station due to Onderon's secession from the Republic, and because of that, Lorso lies to Citadel Station that the Telosian Council has entered an anti-Republic treaty with Onderon. *An Option to See Carth - The Exile would have the option of denying Carth an audience after saving Telos. *Corrun Falt's Plan - Infiltrating the main frame was not always an Ithorian quest. The Exile was supposed to learn from Corrun Falt that he had planned on exposing Lorso's dirty dealings himself, if the Exile had sided with Czerka. The Exile would be able to help Falt (Light Side option) or expose Falt to Lorso (Dark Side option). Exposing Falt to Lorso will result in Falt attacking the Exile, but the Czerka guards would kill him anyway. *Missing HK-47 and Bao-Dur - When arriving on Citadel Station due to the Sith Attack, Grenn would note that he thought he saw Bao-Dur disembark with the player, but he is now missing. Atton would also notice that HK is missing, if the HK Factory was triggered properly. *Atton and Bao-Dur Take Note of Surrounding Obstacles - Bao-Dur and Atton would make a note to the player of minefields, sentry droids, and mercenaries and that they need be avoided. *The Crash - Atton was supposed to say a few lines as the shuttle from Citadel Station plummets into the ground. When the shuttle crashes again at the Ice Plateau, Atton would make it known once again that it wasn't his fault. *HK-50s Congratulate the Shooter - After the Exile's shuttle is shot down, the leading HK-50 congratulates the HK-50 that took down the shuttle of his excellent shot. "Egotistic Praise: An excellent shot, even with the prevailing winds. I couldn't have done it better myself." *HK-50s Concern - When awaking on the polar mesa, instead of the HK saying "There you are!" he was to say that he is glad that the Exile is still intact. "Relieved Statement: Ah, Jedi, it is good to see you intact. We were concerned that shooting down your shuttle would damage you irreparably. Quick Clarification: But now that we have found you, we hope that we can facilitate communications. Unnecessary Addendum: And put an end... to hostilities." *I've Come for My Lightsaber - Atris wields the Exile's original lightsaber in the final battle when she is torturing the Handmaiden. *Assisting Atris - The decision of whether or not the Exile assists Atris would supposed to have an effect on cutscenes played when leaving the polar academy. *The Handmaiden's Mission - Before leaving, Atris would summon the Last of the Handmaidens and give her the mission to accompany the Exile and tell her that she is not to tell her sisters. Alternate dialogue between the Sisters and Atris ("The Last is not among us") could suggest either that Atris did tell the sisters herself that she sent the Handmaiden with the Exile or that Atris leads the Sisters to believe that the Handmaiden betrayed them. *Come, Last of the Handmaidens - The Exile would have the option to be the one to kill the Handmaidens, and as a result, the Handmaiden attacks after killing Atris. (Dark Side option.) *Kreia and Atris's Alternate Lines - Kreia's alternate lines when talking to Atris suggest that she asked for the Exile's exile, and they discuss the Sith Holocrons that Atris had gathered. *Handmaiden Leaves with Kreia - After Kreia's discussion with Atris (or Handmaiden's fight), Kreia would take the Handmaiden to Malachor to prepare for Visas's arrival. *Handmaiden's Fight - Instead of the Sisters just dropping dead when the Handmaiden walks in, they were to fight each other. The Handmaiden can either kill them or incapacitate them. *Atris's Promise to her Servants - Provided the Exile follows a certain path of dialog after the Handmaiden is beaten by Atris, Atris would inform the Exile that she promised that the Sisters may kill him for harming Brianna. The Handmaiden Sisters would then attack the Exile. *Attack! - The Exile had the option of killing all the Handmaidens during the first visit to the Academy. (Dark Side option.) *White/Black Corruption - Originally, Atris was supposed to be clad in black robes during the final sequences, as well as the corrupted Handmaidens. This was cut because it would be odd for Atris to conveniently have Sith/Dark Jedi Robes lying around. *The HK Factory - One of the most famous pieces of cut content, HK-47 discovers the location of the factory and goes there during the attack on Telos. He is forced to find a way into the actual factory and, before that, deactivate his self-preservation program. He can activate the HK-51s and destroy them, turn the HK-51s to his side and destroy the HK-50s, turn the HK-50s to his side and destroy the HK-51s, or just blow them all up. His actions determine the final fate of Malachor V. *Atris Exposition - According to writer Chris Avellone, Atris was supposed to have two other cut-scenes in between planets. *Bao-Dur was possibly to accompany HK-47 to the hidden base on Telos. According to Chris Avellone: "he was supposed to die on the attack on Telos to help HK-47 get to the HK-50 factory and shut it down to save the planet." *Azkul Spies on the Militia - Right before the Battle of Khoonda (if player sides with Khoonda), Azkul will tell a trooper to tell him what he sees. They see the militia mobilizing, and Azkul orders the captains to prepare their men. *The Attack on Khoonda - Battle of Khoonda was supposed to be larger than what is in the game currently, including mines being planted and disabled. The Exile would actually get to fight outside Khoonda, defending one of the entrances (Light Side option) or attacking Khoonda with Azkul, allowing the Exile to kill Zherron (Dark Side option). Then, the battle would move into Khoonda. The Exile would also be able to deploy squadrons of troops to defend the administrator's door, the back door, and the front door, based on their skills. *Kreia Talks of the Enclave - When approaching the Enclave, Kreia would make note about how this is the "center" of the events taking place, and the party must to gather the Jedi here. Kreia makes this note again when the Exile sees the rebuilt Enclave. *A Bounty for Vrook - Originally, the Exile had an additional option to killing or allying with Master Vrook. The Exile could capture Master Vrook (Dark Side option), and Azkul would send the party to Nar Shaddaa. *Suulru's Thief Problem - Instead of Jorran giving Suulru a bad deal with a vaporator, Suulru's quest would involve a problem with a thief stealing his farming equipment, thinking it's the salvagers. Upon completing the quest, the Exile can convince Suulru to change his ideas about the Jedi and how they messed up Dantooine. *Gerevick's Plans - Gerevick is supposed to contact someone inside Khoonda as the Exile eavesdrops. This is presumably about how the Exile showed up and the threat to his claim on the dead salvagers in the Enclave. *A Lost Padawan - Kaevee, the thief from Suulru quest, is here, master of the laigreks. She is a former padawan and wields her own lightsaber, though she is relatively unskilled and weak. She describes a Holocron that told her that the Jedi are all dead. The Exile can either tell her to follow the Dark Side, kill her (also Dark Side option), or tell her to seek out real Jedi, not the mysterious Holocron that she threw into the ruins before. Killing her yields two basic lightsaber parts. Along with the part received from Czerka or the Ithorians on Citadel Station as well as the parts received from killing Jorran, a Dark Side Exile would have more than enough parts to craft their first lightsaber. *Disciple's Hidden Holocron - Disciple would take the Exile into a hidden, locked room in the Enclave and display a Holocron as well as a recording of when the Exile left for the Mandalorian Wars, leaving a Padawan without a Master behind. *Kreia Taunts Each Master - During the Masters infamous speech about how they must cut the Exile off from the Force, Kreia comes in as usual and throws them back. However, after she drains them, it's not over. Kreia was to ask each Master how they could not have felt the echo and how close they were to giving up the Force, but they failed. Kreia puts each of them in a crush, thus killing them. *Atris's Absence - Brianna is supposed to arrive somewhat earlier during the meeting and ask Kreia what was going on. She looks into the chamber and notices that Atris is not present and wonders why. She then realizes Kreia's evil intentions. *The Exile Reads Party Members' Minds - When asked if he could not sense his party member's thoughts, the Exile was supposed to read the minds of the members of the active party. This was probably removed due to player-determined influences not matching with this scene. *Visas's Involvement - Visas realizes Kreia is evil, and after attacking the Exile or the Masters, Kreia asks Visas to take her to Nihilus. *Disciple's Proper Greeting - When the Exile enters the library in the Enclave and meets Mical, Mical will joke about becoming laigrek meat and how he is a self-styled disciple of knowledge. He would also explain exactly why he was in the library - due to laigreks coming at him in a full group. *Mandalore Fights Esok - Originally, before fighting Esok, Mandalore was to insist to the Exile that this was his fight alone. Only Mandalore would be player-controlled during the fight, other characters would merely stand idle. *Bao-Dur's Old Friend - Tien Tubb and Bao-Dur were once friends and worked together in the Mandalorian Wars in a Republic ship's hangar bay. Bao-Dur would ask that Tien changes the Ebon Hawk's transponder codes. *Atton Doesn't Wait - When the Exile has gone off to meet Visquis in the Jekk'Jekk Tarr, if the Exile has low influence with him, he will not rush off to meet with the Exile to tell him/her to be careful, but instead stay by the Ebon Hawk and leave the other party members there while he goes to the cantina. *Fighting to the Docks - After Atton has been attacked by the Twin Suns, he and two other party members attempt to rescue the Exile. The three would fight bounty hunters to the docks where they would meet up with Mira.Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic II: The Sith Lords dialogue file, StrRef 112397 *Vossk and the GenoHaradan - Vossk makes references to the GenoHaradan being on the Smugglers' Moon. *A Dead Exile - Dessicus (GenoHaradan) blows up the Jekk'Jekk Tarr and the party thinks the Exile is dead. Visas or Kreia will say that the betrayals will start to mount between the Sith. *Zez-Kai Ell's Rescue - Since Dessicus was originally supposed to be in the Jekk'Jekk Tarr (instead of Visquis) and he was supposed to set off an explosion, Zez-Kai Ell rescues the Exile from an explosive death, though the party still thinks the Exile is dead. *The Zhug Brothers' Plan - The Zhug Brothers discuss the Exile's meeting with Visquis and plan an attack on the party members. When the player goes to rescue the Exile from Goto, the leader tells the others to follow the Ebon Hawk. *Adana - Adana thanks the Exile in the main refugee quad when she is returned to safety, rather than not appearing at all. *Goto and Vogga - When entering Vogga's chambers, Goto comments that he should stay outside. *More Than One Jedi on the Moon - If the Disciple or Kreia was in the party when Mira spied on the Exile, she'd make note of them. *Return of B-4D4 and T-1N1 - The pair from Telos Czerka Corp would guard the entrance to the room with the transponder codes. T3 (if brought along) attacks T1, and B-4D4 is grateful for letting him leave. *Opo Chano's Debt - When arriving in the slop house, Chano is supposed to be challenged by thugs for not paying his debts on Citadel Station. This happens when the Exile helps Chano get off Citadel station in the Czerka plot. *Fassa is a Toydarian - Fassa was probably originally supposed to be Quello, the Toydarian who greeted the Exile at the landing pad. And then at the docks, be the overseer instead of the Twi'lek. *Hanharr Broken - If Hanharr was the party member instead of Mira, then Hanharr would be found in the apartment in an incapacitated animation with Kreia looking down at him. *Sold or Left? - If T3 was not sold to Kodin, then Atton would have said "What kept you?" when T3 returned from Vogga's warehouse. *Mira and the Exile plan things out - Mira, instead of knocking the player out, will explain Zez-Kai Ell early and have the Exile go in first instead of her stealing the environmental suit. *Fighting Back to the Landing Pad - When the party members meet with Mira after the Exile has been captured, the Gand will attack them as they try to get to the landing pad to change the ID signatures. *Atton's Lap Dance - Atton was supposed to receive the Star Wars equivalent of a lap dance; a neck massage. Also, Atton is supposed to do sort of a confession of his "confused, stupid" love for the female Exile. During this scene, under the right circumstances, Atton instantly knows they are assassins from the clothes and concealed weapons. *Hussef's True Form - Hussef was supposed to have the appearance of a much elderly man with white hair instead of a generic male with red hair. *A Rude Little Man - An NPC is supposed to try and score with a Twi'lek who attempts to shove off his efforts. The Exile steps in to stop the man. *Find the Gand Quest - A Sullustan in the Gand section of the Jekk'Jekk Tarr asks the Exile to find the name of a great Gand warrior. Options were to lie to the Sullustan, find the Gand (with a high awareness) and then refuse to tell the Sullustan due to the Gand's request, or tell the Sullustan anyway. *Spa Treatment at the Jekk'Jekk Tarr - The Twi'leks were supposed to be like the Twi'lek slaves at Davik's estate and offer steam baths and massages. *Environment Suit Stays On - The Exile would have the option to leave the environment suit on when speaking with Visquis. This exchange was moved to the arena to replace the GenoHaradan. Visquis would later be able to capture the Exile and order the Ubese to take him to Goto. *Magic Eight Ball - In the Jekk'Jekk Tarr, there was to be a Weequay who had an orb where you can ask questions. *Mira's Escape from the Jekk'Jekk Tarr - Instead of the Exile killing Visquis, it would be a party member, and then Mira would lead them out of the Jekk'Jekk Tarr into her safe house. Also, Mira was to be held in some cell in which she says that Visquis will execute her, and where the party member would rescue her. *Dessicus of the GenoHaradan - Obviously, the GenoHaradan would be the organization beneath the Jekk'Jekk Tarr. Dessicus will challenge the Exile. After they fight, Dessicus blows the Jekk'Jekk Tarr up. *Kreia Speaks to Hanharr - Additional line from Kreia, "The screams of your tribe of primitives, the scene of lying blinded with the huntresses' blaster at your skull, I shall make it so that is all you hear and see for the rest of your days." *Threatening Goto - When stumbling upon the control center, the Exile threatens to use a certain skill to dismantle his vessel, however, Goto says that his droids will just turn off the oxygen. *Goto's Orders - Goto will command his droids not only to activate the mines but raise the force shield, poison the party, and deploy guard droids. Finally, Goto notices the bounty hunters on his ship and gives the self-destruct order. *Time to Abandon Ship! - When the Bounty Hunters appear on Goto's vessel, Goto makes note of them and says that it's time for him to take his leave. HK-50s were also supposed to be among the bounty hunters there, as well as more Zhug brothers (where the PC can gloat about killing Dhazanti on Dxun) *The GenoHaradan are None of the Bounty Hunters' Concern - One of the Zhug brothers will mention that the GenoHaradan are also after the Exile during their meeting with Goto, and so Goto commands them to ignore the GenoHaradan and says that they aren't of any concern. *Nar Shaddaa Cantina - An entire cantina was cut out from the planet. It was located near Vossk in the landing pad area. It is now just a door, but if you have or use Visas' Force sight you can see the cantina.Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic II: The Sith Lords *Kreia's Premonition - On the first entrance to Nar Shaddaa, if Kreia is in party, she will stop and look around as though anticipating the troubles to come on the planet. *Liskis - Originally, there was to be an NPC aboard G0-T0's Yacht who claimed to have built the ship. *An Option to see Mandalore - Instead of player just killing the Mandalorians if he doesn't want to meet Mandalore, the Exile has an option of leaving them alone. *Controlling the Beast - Somewhere within the tomb of Freedon Nadd, a scene where the Sith is controlling a beast and onlookers wonder how it's possible. *Kreia Goes to the Tomb - Kreia was originally supposed to be allowed to join the party that goes to the tomb. Cut so that it'd make sense with the Tobin scene in the Onderon Royal Palace where Kreia reveals the hiding place of the Jedi. *Vaklu's Entrance - If the player sides with Vaklu, then he should not have been waiting in the throne room, but after the beast is dead, he arrives and runs to defeat Talia. Kavar rushes in to stop him. The Exile stops Kavar. The options here are much more lenient to the Light Side in which the Exile has the option of saying "Onderon would be better off." *Kadron's Fall - If the player sides with Vaklu, then when the Exile arrives in the room where Kadron is, then he will defend the terminal with his life. *The Sith Revelation - If the Exile sides with Vaklu, the Sith will notice that the beasts no longer obey them. The Sith order Vaklu's death for the betrayal. *Party Cannot Enter - Before entering the tomb of Ludo Kressh, a party member chimes in about not being able to move. *Apathy is Death! - Currently, only Atton, T3, Bao-Dur and the Disciple, the Handmaiden, or Visas appear in the tomb. Originally, all the party members were to be there to either defeat Kreia, or attack you. *Dustil Onasi - The dead Jedi in the tomb was supposed to be none other than Dustil Onasi. He would have been driven insane and attack the Exile. *Attacking Yourself - At the end of the tomb, before, during, or after the Exile faces Revan, the Exile's doppelgänger is also supposed to attack you. The doppelgänger has no Force powers, but a considerable amount of strength. Currently, the copy merely stands there, then fades away after you enter the room. *A Fragile Alliance At Best - After Sion discovers the Exile is "dead," he confronts Darth Nihilus on the Ravager. Sion claims that he is more powerful and never needed Nihilus's help. Nihilus, in anger, shows Sion that he is the more powerful one. *Tobin's Message - Tobin arrives on the Ravager after Onderon and informs Nihilus about the Jedi at Telos to feed on. *Nihilus Fight Expanded - Nihilus raises Visas and the Exile up. The Exile then has the option of becoming his apprentice (either through a lie or not). If the Exile lies, then the Exile and Visas attack Nihilus. If the Exile does not lie, then she turns on Visas and kills her. Either way, the Exile fights Nihilus. When Visas does die, Mandalore chips in with some dialogue and the Exile can choose to leave her to die alone or kill her out of mercy. *Mandalore and Visas - Mandalore and Visas agree not to betray each other. Later, Mandalore is hurt and Visas heals him. Mandalore then tells all about what Revan did to him. *The Ravager's Crash - Originally, the Exile had the option to leave the Ravager without replacing the broken proton core. This results in the Ravager crashing into Telos IV and exploding. *The "Droid Planet," M4-78, was cut from the game. However, some of the quests from M4-78 were moved to other planets in the game, such as Goto's Yacht and the shuttle-docking puzzle on Nar Shaddaa. *The Exile would have meditated in order to find out where Nihilus and Sion came from. The Exile would have had a vision that featured her companions speaking, their voices blending together, and it would have led her to Malachor V. *Sion Travels to the Smugglers' Moon - Sion announces that he will travel to the Smugglers' Moon (while observing a hologram of the Exile) himself to see if the Exile is truly dead. *Mandalore Walks the Taboo World - Visas and Mandalore were supposed to walk Malachor V together, according to the loading screen to module 901MAL. *What Mandalore Knows of Malachor - The Exile was once supposed to be able to take party members with him/her to Malachor. The Exile could ask Mandalore what he knows of the planet. If the Exile should "warp" to 902MAL with Mandalore in the party in a different location in the game, then it is still possible to hear his response. *Spare Me? - Kreia puts Sion into a force choke and shows him that his strength is as meaningless as the strength of her cut-off hand. *Sion Reports the Exile's Arrival - After crash landing on Malachor V, Sion goes to Kreia and tells her that the Exile has arrived. Kreia tells Sion to bring him/her before her. *Hanharr and Mira - Hanharr was to slam Mira into the rock wall before their fight. If Mira was a Jedi, then Hanharr makes note of it and how the gray female told him that she claimed the title Jeedai. After the fight, Mira can ask Hanharr to lead her to Kreia. Hanharr says he will do so, though he believes that Kreia will kill Mira and thus end both of his debts. *HK-47's Interference - Depending on the choices in the HK factory, HK-47 shows up during the Remote/Goto confrontation. Either the HK-50/51s come in and then HK blasts Goto, or Goto would have taken control of HK-47 and then HK-47 would have blasted the Remote. *Atton's Grudge - Atton tells the Disciple how he lost what mattered to him. The Disciple and Atton then fight. This is triggered by Atton's alignment. *A Powerful Crystal - When entering one of the cells, the player can find a crystal of a dead Jedi. *The Handmaiden's Grudge - The Handmaiden tells Visas how she seduced the Exile. The Handmaiden and Visas then fight. This is triggered by whatever happened on the Ebon Hawk (if Handmaiden became angry at the Exile). *Two Paths - When the Exile enters the academy, Kreia tells Sion of the Exile's choices to save the party or just slaughter the way to Kreia. *Atton and Darth Sion - Atton and Darth Sion fight (player controlled). If the battle is won, Atton lives. If the battle is lost, Atton was to have his arm chopped off and then be tortured by Sion. This is triggered if Atton is Light Side. *Atton's Death - Should Atton have lost to Sion, Atton dies in the Exile's arms. If the Exile is female, Atton confesses his love for her. *Atton Lives - Atton can live if he wins the fight with Sion. He and the Exile simply leave the Trayus Core together. *The Handmaiden/Visas Wants to Go - If the Exile is male, the Handmaiden or Visas will ask if she can go with the Exile wherever he is going. However, the Exile tells them that they cannot. *Leaving the Republic to Die - Another choice for the Exile was presented: to leave Malachor V and then leave the Republic to die. *The Party Attacks - The party plans an attack on Kreia. They attack Kreia who disposes of them easily after taunting them a bit. *Darth Traya is Atris - Instead of Kreia being at the core, it would be Atris in her dark robes. *In the Trayus Academy - On the map under the start menu, the doors leading to the "Trayus Crescent" are labeled as "Trayus Prison Cells." *Hanharr's Sacrifice - Presumably, if the Exile has Hanharr in the party and Malachor V is being destroyed, Hanharr would throw the Exile onto the Ebon Hawk. Hanharr would then die with Malachor V (something many players and fans may recognize, as Chewbacca died a similar death to save Anakin Solo). *Bao-Dur's Sacrifice - In the game files, one of Bao-Dur's lines is "Make my sacrifice matter." According to Chris Avellone, Bao-Dur dies during "the attack on Telos to help HK-47 get to the HK-50 factory and shut it down to save the planet." *"You look... different than the other women here." - There were things left in the game's programming, to suggest the Handmaiden Sisters were supposed to look different than Brianna. *Some items were cut from the game. These include the Peragus items mentioned above, and the Prima Guide mentioned at least two items that were cut, including: Malak's Lightsaber, a standard, non-upgradable lightsaber with a violet crystal, and Visas Marr's Lightsaber, Visas was to keep her lightsaber after her initial duel with the lightsaber and would use it uniquely to herself (note: Malak's Lightsaber is only found in the guidebook and not in the game files. Visas Marr's Lightsaber, however, is still obtainable through the PC edition's cheat console). A team of modders from the KOTOR and KOTOR II modding community using tools from Holowan Laboratories started a project to restore the appropriate missing content and release it as a mod. The main restoration mod was called "The Sith Lords Restoration Project" and was in development by Team Gizka. It would have restored almost all of the cut content (apart from M4-78). However, in early 2010 Team Gizka dissolved. No one knows what happened but all work has stopped and all contact has been lost with the team. As of today there is only a half completed beta floating around torrent sites. Another team of modders (Team Exile) encouraged by the efforts of Team Gizka plotted out and considered restoring the majority of content TG is not touching. Their project was called "The Sith Lords Restoration Project II: The Un-Restored Content." However, after problems concerning the team's leader Darth Balor - including accusations of plagiarism, the team disbanded. Several months after the trouble with Darth Balor, the project was picked up by a user called Pikmin and the name was changed to The Sith Lords Content Restoration. On February 28th 2009, Pikmin was exposed as being Darth Balor. The cut planet M4-78 was restored by a modder called Darth Stoney, and was made public on The Knights of the Old Republic FileFront website. Later, a heavily expanded version of Darth Stoney's mod called M4-78 Enhancement Project was developed. Stoney also teamed up with Zbyl to create their own restored content mod called "The Sith Lords Restored Content Mod". It was completed as of March 14, 2010 and can be downloaded at Filefront. Version 1.7 was released 19th October 2010. So far it is the only large scale restoration mod to have been fully completed with regular updates being added. The final 1.8 patch, which restores all the content planed TSLRCM was released on the 25th of July, 2012. A version of the M4-78 mod called M4-78EP was released on December 28th and is compatible with TSLRCM 1.8.2. Category:Legends cut content