12224
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Danyawarra
Danyawarra
5536

*Galactic Republic **101st Regiment |masters=Ludwin Katarkus |apprentices= }} Danyawarra was a Jedi who was the Padawan of Jedi Master Ludwin Katarkus. In 23 BBY, they accompanied Katarkus as part of a Jedi envoy attempting to resolve the Virgillian Civil War, but the mission ended in disaster when their ship was attacked upon arrival. They served the Galactic Republic as a Padawan commander in the Grand Army of the Republic during the Clone Wars. A Force-sensitive individual, Danyawarra trained in the ways of the Force under the tenets of the Jedi Order and was selected as a Padawan learner by Jedi Master Ludwin Katarkus. thumb|right|300px|The 101st Regiment, which Danyawarra commanded during the Clone Wars In 23 BBY, is set on the date "13:2:28," which corresponds to 23 BBY per the reasoning here. a Jedi diplomatic envoy was sent to the planetThe Truce at Bakura Sourcebook Virgillia 7SkyeWalkers: A Clone Wars Story to mediate the ongoing Virgillian Civil War between the Virgillian Free Alignment and the Aristocracy in the Virgillia system. Consisting of two Master-Padawan teams, the diplomatic envoy was made up of Master Katarkus, Danyawarra, Master Everen Ettene, and Padawan Halagad Ventor. As the ship carrying the Jedi envoy arrived, it was attacked and destroyed. After receiving no word from the diplomatic team for three weeks, the team was declared lost in the CoCo District Edition of HoloNet News published on 13:2:28 GrS. The article also announced that the Jedi Temple on the planetThe New Essential Chronology Coruscant would be holding memorial services for them the next day. Although Katarkus and Ettene both died during the mission, Danyawarra survived and rejoined the Order, as did Ventor. Danyawarra served as a Padawan commander in the Grand Army of the Republic during the Clone Wars, commanding the 101st Regiment, which consisted of 2,304 clone troopers. Danyawarra was first mentioned in the article "Virgillian Jedi Envoy Declared Lost" in HoloNet News Vol. 531 #45, an in-universe issue of the HoloNet News written by Pablo Hidalgo and Paul Ens and published on the HoloNet News website before March 10, 2002. *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Individuals of unspecified gender Category:Individuals of unspecified species Category:Individuals with unspecified pronouns Category:Jedi Commanders Category:Jedi trainees of the Jedi Order Category:Members of the 101st Regiment Category:Members of the 327th Star Corps