12438
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Miro_Daroon
Miro Daroon
4150

Miro Daroon was a male Piton Jedi Knight serving the Jedi Order during the waning years of the Galactic Republic. A Sentinel and the tech supervisor of the Coruscant Jedi Temple, Daroon was a contemporary of the Dark Jedi Xanatos. Discovered to be Force-sensitive during infancy on his homeworld of Piton, Miro Daroon was taken to the Coruscant Jedi Temple for training in the ways of the Force. At the Temple academy, Daroon excelled in technological work, only rivaled by his contemporary Initiate Xanatos, who specialized in infrastructure models. Eventually graduating from the academy and being selected by a Jedi Master to train as a Padawan, Daroon went onto pass his Trials of Knighthood and become a Jedi Knight. As a Knight, Daroon began independent study on the path to become a Sentinel, as it best complemented his skills with technology. After years of hard work, Daroon was given the position of tech supervisor at the Jedi Temple, overseeing the structure's complex tech center and the distribution of technological equipment to field-duty Jedi. In 44 BBY, Daroon was present at the Temple when a mysterious saboteur caused a continual series of system failures throughout the Temple. As the sabotage grew increasingly worse, Daroon was forced to shut down two wings of the Temple. Working with Master Qui-Gon Jinn to combat the intruder, the pair concluded that the only way to undo the attacks was to shut down all of the Temple's systems and restart them&mdash;a solution Daroon hesitated to implement, as it would leave the Temple vulnerable. When Master Jinn discovered that Initiate Bruck Chun was aiding the intruder in the sabotage, Daroon helped to lock down the tunnels that the boy was using to move around the Temple complex unseen. After studying the sabotage in detail, Jinn and Daroon came to the conclusion that the saboteur was the Dark Jedi Xanatos, a former student at the Temple and Jinn's old apprentice. As Jinn hunted Xanatos, Daroon continued his work, shutting down the air circulation system and then the rest of the Temple for a total of twelve minutes. Unknown to the tech supervisor, Xanatos had rigged the Temple's fusion furnace to implode upon a full system's restart, a fact the Dark Jedi gloated about to Master Jinn. Warned of the potential catastrophe, Daroon directed Jinn to the fusion furnace and was able to remove the trigger mechanism before the Temple could be destroyed. *Jedi Apprentice: The Captive Temple *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Jedi Sentinels Category:Males Category:Pitons Category:Post-Ruusan Jedi Knights Category:Technicians