12556
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Aryn_Dro_Thul
Aryn Dro Thul
3267

Aryn Dro Thul was a Human female who was the wife of Bornan Thul and co-founder of Bornaryn Trading. Aryn was dating Bornan some time around 11 BBY, when she sang in a restaurant on her home world of Alderaan. She caught the eye of a very young smuggler, Han Solo, who had just escaped an ambush and was repairing his ship. Bornan was behaving like a jealous boyfriend and Solo contemplated trying to steal Aryn away, but decided she was too much of a classy lady. After her husband's untimely death in 24 ABY, Aryn ran Bornaryn alone, but had some assistance from her brother-in-law Tyko. Her reaction to the disappearance of her son Raynar while on the Myrkr mission went unrecorded, as did her activities during the Yuuzhan Vong War. However, in 35 ABY, she was informed by Tesar Sebatyne that Raynar was alive, but fainted when she was told what had become of him. Nevertheless, she did send out the supply ships that Raynar had requested through Tesar. In 36 ABY, Aryn bought out the popular Coruscant restaurant Yuza Bre to spite Cal Omas. After an exchange with Luke Skywalker and Mara Jade Skywalker over Raynar's fate while dining at Yuza Bre, she provided them with a R-series prototype droid. The prototype was useful in that in had an OmniGate that could be used to override R2-D2's sequestered memory sectors. Aryn Dro Thul had chestnut brown hair, blue eyes, and wore a blue robe with a sash made up of the colors of the House of Thul&mdash;purple, gold, and red. *The Paradise Snare *Young Jedi Knights: Shards of Alderaan *Young Jedi Knights: Diversity Alliance *Young Jedi Knights: Delusions of Grandeur *Young Jedi Knights: The Emperor's Plague *Young Jedi Knights: Crisis at Crystal Reef *Dark Nest I: The Joiner King *Dark Nest III: The Swarm War *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Alderaanians Category:Business owners and executives Category:Females Category:House of Thul Category:Humans Category:New Republic individuals