12518
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Shon_Kon_Ray
Shon Kon Ray
7404

Shon Kon Ray was a Human male Jedi Master who served as a General during the Clone Wars. Five months into the war, the Galactic Republic invaded the planet Brentaal IV when clan leader Shogar Tok, who was allied with the Confederacy of Independent Systems, caused the local populace to rebel against the Republic. Kon Ray and fellow Jedi Generals Agen Kolar and Shaak Ti led the invasion force, while Master Plo Koon commanded the naval fleet. However, the Brentaal rebels repelled the majority of the Republic troops with their shielded ion cannons. While Kon Ray was aboard a LAAT/i gunship, he sent a message to Koon informing him of the situation, suggesting a withdrawal from the planet. As Kon Ray finished his report, his gunship was destroyed by enemy fire, killing the Jedi Master in the process. Shon Kon Ray, a Human male, was born during the final decades of the Galactic Republic. He was trained in the ways of the Force by the Jedi Order, eventually rising to the rank of Jedi Master. When the Clone Wars were initiated in 21.6 BBY, Kon Ray led the Grand Army of the Republic's clone troopers as a Jedi General. thumb|left|220px|Shon Kon Ray's LAAT/i is shot down. Five months into the Clone Wars, the Republic assaulted the planet Brentaal IV when Shogar Tok, a clan leader who joined the Separatists, incited the local population to rebel against the Republic. Kon Ray led the invasion force, along with fellow Jedi Masters Agen Kolar and Shaak Ti. However, the Brentaal resistance fighters fought back against the majority of the Republic troops with their ion cannons, which were fully shielded. While he was aboard a LAAT/i gunship, Kon Ray sent a message to Jedi Master Plo Koon&mdash;who was placed in charge of the naval fleet&mdash;informing him of the situation on the planet. In the message, Kon Ray suggested that the Republic forces retreat from the planet, although he was willing to consider any recommendations Koon had to offer. Kon Ray's ship was destroyed after the Jedi Master finished his report, ending his life. The Human male Shon Kon Ray had light skin and blond hair. During the Republic's assault of Brentaal IV, he advised Plo Koon that a withdrawal from the planet was necessary, but was willing to listen to other suggestions. Shon Kon Ray wore a set of brown Jedi robes. Shon Kon Ray was created for the comic Jedi: Shaak Ti, written by John Ostrander and illustrated by Jan Duursema. The comic was published by Dark Horse Comics on May 14, 2003. Ostrander speculated that Kon Ray was born in 75 BBY. When Kyle Jewhurst created the Ortolan Jedi Knight Nem Bees through StarWars.com's "What's The Story?" feature, Kon Ray was originally intended to have been Bees' Jedi Master. However, the reference was cut during the editorial process. Ostrander later confirmed that the Jedi's name references the famous actor Sean Connery. *Jedi: Shaak Ti *The New Essential Chronology Category:Humans Category:Jedi Generals Category:Males Category:Post-Ruusan Jedi Masters