12524
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Lari_Oll
Lari Oll
4798

Lari Oll was a Human female Jedi Knight who served as a communications technician in the Jedi Temple during the Clone Wars. In 19 BBY, Oll was on duty in the Jedi Temple communication center when the Separatists attacked the planet Coruscant. Under the supervision of Jedi Grand Master Yoda, Oll attempted to send a message to recall all available Jedi to Coruscant; however, she was unable to break through the Separatists' jamming. thumb|300px|right|The Separatists' attack on Coruscant Lari Oll was a Human female Jedi Knight active during the Clone Wars. In the final year of the war, Oll was serving as a communications technician in the Jedi Temple on the Republic's capital planet Coruscant. She was on duty when the Confederacy of Independent Systems launched an attack on Coruscant. Jedi Grand Master Yoda wanted to recall all available Jedi to Coruscant; however, due to the attack, the Jedi were unable to communicate over the HoloNet, so they resorted to using the Jedi beacon. In the Jedi Temple communication center, Oll attempted to send a message out using the beacon. Unable to break through the Separatists' intense signal jamming, Oll suggested to Yoda that if one of the Jedi starfighter pilots could get through the Separatist blockade around the planet, they might be able to send a message through the HoloNet. Yoda informed Oll that Master Saesee Tiin was already in the process of attempting to get past the enemy fleet to recall Jedi. On Yoda's command, Oll commed Master Mace Windu; however, the connection was unclear due to the defensive shields that had been raised. Oll then attempted to comm Master Shaak Ti to no avail. Lari Oll was a brown-haired Jedi who had reached the rank of Jedi Knight by the final stages of the Clone Wars. Serving as a communications technician in the Jedi Temple, Oll was capable with the Temple's computer and communications systems. Lari Oll first appeared in the 2005 novel Labyrinth of Evil, written by James Luceno. *Labyrinth of Evil *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Females Category:Humans Category:Individuals with she/her pronouns Category:Post-Ruusan Jedi Knights Category:Technicians