12571
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Avatar_Orbital_Platform
Avatar Orbital Platform
8885

The Avatar Orbital Platform was a joint venture between the Galactic Empire and a group of Trandoshan slavers called the Blackscale Clan, built to aid in the transportation and sale of Wookiee slaves captured on nearby Kashyyyk and the moon of Alaris Prime. Avatar Orbital Platform was a space station which acted as a slave hub. It was constructed by the Galactic Empire and Trandoshan slave groups. Not built for looks, the platform was crude but functional, and was equipped with sufficient defenses to keep Rebels from interfering with the Imperial slave trade. As of 4 ABY, it was configured in a square, with the main reactor in the middle. Four airbases provided transports on and off the station. Military buildings protected the reactor. At one corner was an Imperial fortress; the corner diagonal to it held a slave pen protected by four laser turrets. A complement of stormtroopers and TIE fighters was also aboard. Avatar was frequently the last stop for an enslaved family before they were separated for shipment to their new masters. The slaver Pekt was instrumental in designing the station. During the Galactic Civil War, only the Blackscale Clan provided clearance codes to land on the platform. However both the Zssik Clan of Trandoshan slavers and Imperial scientists on the planet Kashyyyk managed to acquire the codes to send operatives aboard the station. thumb|left|A Blackscale Clan Enforcer In 1 ABY, Wookiee freedom fighters attacked the Avatar Platform to stop the Trandoshan slaving operations. During these fights, a group of spacers working for the Zssik Clan entered the station to disrupt the Blackscale's slaving operations. After battling the Blackscale forces aboard the station, the spacers activated the station's self-destruct sequence and returned to Kashyyyk. Large explosions extensively damaged the station and killed most beings on board, but overall the station remained intact and quite functional. Before long, both the Blackscale Clan and Wookiee freedom fighters sent reinforcements to the station to continue the fight for control over the Avatar Platform. During the Liberation of Kashyyyk in 4 ABY, Han Solo and Chewbacca pursued Moff Hindane Darcc and Pekt. When their palace was destroyed, Darcc and Pekt retreated to Avatar but were followed by their pursuers. Solo had already sent a message to the New Republic, and as soon as they arrived on Avatar, they were joined by Lando Calrissian on the Millennium Falcon and Rogue Squadron with Luke Skywalker. After a brief battle, the Rebels destroyed the airbases to prevent Darcc and Pekt from escaping, rescued Attichitcuk, who was enslaved with other Wookiees, and managed to kill Darcc and Pekt. Finally, the Rebels destroyed the main reactor, destabilizing the Avatar and causing it to crash onto Kashyyyk. The Avatar Orbital Platform was first mentioned in the strategy guide for the 2001 video game Star Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds. The station appeared in the game's Chewbacca campaign. The station appeared again in 2005's Star Wars Galaxies: Rage of the Wookiees, the second expansion of Star Wars Galaxies. In both games, the station is destroyed by the player's actions. However after the station's destruction in Rage of the Wookiees—which takes place several years before the events of the Chewbacca campaign in Galactic Battlegrounds—the non-player character Marium Valmont explains that the station wasn't fully destroyed and remained "quite functional." In Galactic Battlegrounds, Avatar is an open, flat series of wide-walled platforms. This is due to the limitations of the game, which does not support fighting in covered buildings or starships. The player has 10 minutes in the beginning of the mission to destroy the airbases, and is then tasked with rescuing the Wookiee prisoners, destroying the fortress, and killing Darcc and Pekt. After destroying the reactor, the Wookiee units escape in a scripted event. *Star Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds *Star Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds: Clone Campaigns *Star Wars Galaxies: Rage of the Wookiees *Star Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds: Prima's Official Strategy Guide *Star Wars Galaxies: The Total Experience: Prima Official Game Guide *Star Wars Galaxies: The Complete Guide: Prima Official Game Guide *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Galactic Empire space stations Category:Kashyyyk system locations Category:Orbital stations Category:Prison stations Category:Space stations in the Mid Rim Category:Space stations in the Slice