12555
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/House_of_Thul
House of Thul
4778

The House of Thul, also known as House Thul, was an ancient noble house of Alderaan, founded over 3,600 years before the birth of the Galactic Empire. During the Galactic Civil War, family members Bornan and Aryn Thul founded Bornaryn Trading, which would exist as a major trading entity for decades to come. When Alderaan was destroyed by the Galactic Empire, only a handful of House Thul family members were off-world. thumb|left|140px|[[Elana Thul, Lady of House Thul]] House Thul was founded long before the Great Galactic War by a wealthy and ambitious merchant who bought his way into the nobility. Around 3700 BBY, when House Thul was unable to marry into royalty, the house made a desperate bid for power by swapping an Organa infant for a Thul one and supported the changeling as a potential bride for the crown prince. However, a young Jedi exposed the plot, creating a scandal that forced the Alderaanian Parliament to exile the entire house from Alderaan. Despite attempts to maintain its pride and culture in exile, House Thul became impoverished and isolated in their offworld estates. Decades later, they were contacted by the Imperial Diplomatic Service, promising the Sith Empire's support in restoring them to glory. When Alderaan had withdrawn from the Republic, House Thul found itself in a bloody civil war against the Republic-backed House Organa. House Thul became even further entangled in Sith affairs when Darth Baras' apprentice arrived on Alderaan to hunt down the family of the Jedi Padawan Jaesa Willsaam. The House benefited greatly in its quest for the Alderaanian throne due to the various interventions of the Sith Warrior. The descendant of Aloysius Kallig, who was the apprentice of Darth Zash also met with House Thul in Zash's search for an artifact that once belonged to Tulak Hord. Over three millennia later, during the Galactic Civil War, Bornan and Aryn Thul founded Bornaryn Trading together. The corporation involved shipping, Tibanna gas processing, and droid production; and would come to include subsidiaries Industrial Automaton and Xtib. When Alderaan was destroyed by the Galactic Empire, Bornan and Aryn Thul were among the few Alderaanians who were off-world. Their company survived, and would continue to operate until and after the Swarm War; Bornan and Aryn's child, Raynar, trained at Luke Skywalker's Jedi Academy, before becoming a key figure during the Swarm War. *Star Wars: The Old Republic *Star Wars: The Old Republic Cartel Market *Star Wars: The Old Republic: Rise of the Hutt Cartel *Star Wars: The Old Republic: Galactic Strongholds *Star Wars: The Old Republic: Knights of the Fallen Empire *The Paradise Snare *Young Jedi Knights: Diversity Alliance *The New Jedi Order: Star by Star *Dark Nest I: The Joiner King *Dark Nest III: The Swarm War *The Essential Guide to Droids *The Art and Making of Star Wars: The Old Republic *Star Wars: The Old Republic Explorer's Guide *Star Wars: The Old Republic Encyclopedia Category:Great Houses of Alderaan