12808
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Jinkins
Jinkins
11818

|skin=Pale pink |cyber= |families=new |parents=new |partners=new |siblings=new |children=new |affiliation=Lok Revenants |masters= |apprentices= }} }} Jinkins was a male Bith who served as an engineer and general aide to the pirate captain Nym, in the years surrounding the Invasion of Naboo. Jinkins was originally an engineer with the Nubian Design Collective, and the lead engineer on the Scurrg H-6 bomber, a prototype model designed for the Naboo Space Fighter Corps. After the Naboo rejected the design, the Nubians scrapped the project, though Jinkins was not about to let his work go to waste. He arranged a deal with the Feeorin pirate Nym, who stole the prototype and took Jinkins along with it. thumb|left|200px|Jinkins Joining the Lok Revenants, Jinkins served as sensor and scanner operator aboard the newly christened Havoc. Though Jinkins worked aboard the Havoc, he often piloted his own vessel, the Freefall. After an unfortunate run-in with Vana Sage, Jinkins and his wingmate Kole were jettisoned from the space station, and Nym was handed over to the Trade Federation. Jinkins and Kole later infiltrated Nym's cell while masquerading as masters of torture. Jinkins also engaged in patrols around Nym's hideout on Lok, though he was almost killed during one such scout mission that coincided with a full-scale invasion by the Trade Federation. The Revenants fled Lok but continued to harry the Federation for the next decade. When the Revenants were on the run, they accepted odd jobs to survive, such as a movie on Rodia or to hunt down the infamous pirate Sol Sixxa. During the hunt for Sixxa, Jinkins was the engineer on the Sunrunner. Their hunt ended with the apparent death of Sixxa, although in reality he and Nym joined forces.Star Wars: Starfighter: Crossbones Jinkins remained in Nym's service, helping liberate Mere Resistance fighters from the infamous Spacestation 1138, and later aided in the battle of Nod Kartha and the destruction of Cavik Toth's Hex fleet.Star Wars: Jedi Starfighter After the defeat of the Trade Federation, Jinkins and Kole remained loyal to Nym and stayed with him almost continually over the years, with Jinkins serving as Nym's chief engineer. Following the Clone Wars, Nym assumed the leadership of the planet Lok and ruled the planet for decades. At the height of the Galactic Civil War, Lok had fallen under the control of the Galactic Empire but Nym remained the effective ruler of the planet. At that time, Jinkins was known as one of Lok's best engineers. thumb|left|250px|Jinkins with the other leaders of the Lok Revenants. In 1 ABY, an accident took place in a secret Imperial mining facility on Lok. The miners hit a gas pocket and released toxic vapours in the mine. The gas did not physically injured the miners but made them crazy and very aggressive. The Lok Revenants discovered the situation after retrieving from the Sulfur Lake Pirates the memory module of an Imperial droid that escaped the mine. Jinkins then decided to obtain a sample of the gas to study it and use it as a weapon if possible. Jinkins thus tasked a group of spacers recently recruited among the Lok Revenants by Vana Sage with retrieving a sample of toxic gas. The spacers therefore headed to the mine where they had to fight numerous mad and violent miners. Using information obtained from the corrupted Imperial Sergeant Moore, they managed to get rid of the Imperial droidekas that defended the facility. Finally, the spacers found the air filtration system of the mine and retrieved a sealed container of the poisonous gas pumped by the filter. They eventually delivered it to Jinkins. In the meantime, the tensions between the Lok Revenants and the Sulfur Lake Pirates, another criminal group active on Lok, turned to open war. After some setbacks, the pirates set up an elaborate plan to directly attack Nym in his palace. They hijacked a shuttle carrying an envoy of Tatooinan politicians to a meeting with Nym. As the shuttle landed in the courtyard of the palace, Nym and the other leaders of the Lok Revenants&mdash;Vana Sage, Kole and Jinkins&mdash;arrived to greet the Tatooinan envoy. A battle subsequently erupted in the palace when the Sulfur Lake Pirates emerged unexpectedly from the shuttle and attacked the Revenants. However, the superior fighting skills of Nym's henchmen allowed them to eliminate every Sulfur Lake Pirate. Nym, Jinkins, and the other leaders of the Lok Revenants survived the attack. Around the same time, Jinkins designed an experimental blaster rifle that he named J-1 rifle. Tthe weapon was eventually awarded to one of the spacers who joined the Lok Revenants and provided exceptional service to Nym, Jinkins and the Revenants. A brilliant engineer, Jinkins hated it when good technology went to waste, going so far as to abscond with his design and join the Lok Revenants. After his defection, he went on to be a loyal companion to Nym. If you fail your mission to save Jinkins during the assault on Nym's base in Star Wars: Starfighter, Jinkins is killed during the invasion, though the game continues without him. Since the character reappears in the sequel, this part of the game must be non-canonical. In the first game he speaks with an American accent, while in the sequel he speaks with an English accent, voiced by Ross King. In Star Wars: Starfighter, Jinkins's name is misspelled "Jenkins." The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia mistakenly refers to Merick, the identity Jinkins assumes in "Single Cell," as an actual character and not an alias. Jinkins was a Non-Player Character in the 2003 video game Star Wars Galaxies, a massively multiplayer online roleplaying game developed by Sony Online Entertainment and published by LucasArts, prior to its closure on December 15, 2011. Jinkins was added to the game as part of the so-called "Nym's Theme Park," released with the "Publish 3" on October 8, 2003. His dialogues and quests were modified after Nym's Theme Park was revamped with the release of the "Game Update 16," on March 23, 2010. *Star Wars: Starfighter *Starfighter: Crossbones 1 *Starfighter: Crossbones 2 *Starfighter: Crossbones 3 *Star Wars: Jedi Starfighter *Star Wars: Starfighter: Prima's Official Strategy Guide *Star Wars Galaxies: The Total Experience: Prima Official Game Guide *Star Wars Galaxies: The Complete Guide: Prima Official Game Guide *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia *Star Wars: The Official Starships & Vehicles Collection 7 Category:Bith Category:Lok Revenants Category:Males Category:Pirates Category:Resistance fighters Category:Technicians