12905
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Commonality
Commonality
5074

The Commonality was a confederation of five Outer Rim sectors (including Vorzyd sector) during the last decades of the Galactic Republic. This political alliance represented worlds that worked toward a common set of goals and needs during the last decades of the Galactic Republic. The Commonality was ruled from the planet Columex, which provided access to the five sectors via the Perlemian Trade Route. This political group formed an important collection of swing votes in the badly divided Galactic Senate.The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Aside from Columex, planets of the Commonality included Hraki, Paigu, Kilmaulsias, Seftek, Vorzyd IV, and Vorzyd V, all located in the Vorzyd Cluster. The Commonality was initially an alliance made between star systems of the Vorzyd Cluster after the discovery of the cluster by the Galactic Republic during the Draggulch Period. Five centuries later, the Vorzyd Cluster attracted Commenorian investors, including the Greyshade family, who settled on Columex and began trading with the cluster. Columex joined the confederacy and, in a few generations, the aggressive Columexi traders allowed Columex to take control of the entire Commonality. The Commonality was expanded and eventually joined the Republic as a quintet of sectors. During the Clone Wars, the Commonality was represented in the Galactic Senate by Senator Jheramahd Greyshade. He was later succeeded in office by his cousin, Simon Greyshade. When the Republic fell, Senator Simon Greyshade declared a state of emergency in the Commonality. Greyshade later agreed to allow the Galactic Empire to seize a part of the Commonality gambling profits in exchange for control of the Wheel, a space station located in the Mid Rim, to go to a Columexi company controlled by Greyshade. Simon Greyshade remained senator until the dissolution of the Imperial Senate. The Commonality was later ruled by a Moff, Diedrich Greyshade The Commonality later refused to join the New Republic and became independent. Columex was conquered and razed by the Yuuzhan Vong during their invasion of the galaxy. The Vorzyd system was also seized.The Essential Atlas *Republic 46 *Republic 47 *Republic 48 *Geonosis and the Outer Rim Worlds *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Interplanetary governments Category:Outer Rim Territories governments Category:Outer Rim Territories regions