13007
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Hivrekh%27wao%27Cheklev
Hivrekh'wao'Cheklev
10205

|birth= |death= |species=Devaronian |gender=Male |pronouns=new |height= |mass= |hair= |feathers= |eyes= |skin= |cyber= |families=new |parents=new |partners=new |siblings=new |children=new |affiliation=*New Jedi Order *New Republic *Galactic Federation of Free AlliancesThe New Jedi Order: The Unifying Force |masters= |apprentices= }} Hivrekh'wao'Cheklev, also known as Cheklev, was a Devaronian male from the planet Devaron. During the Yuuzhan Vong War of 25&ndash;29 ABY, he served as a Jedi Knight in the New Jedi Order. When the extra-galactic Yuuzhan Vong, intent on conquering the galaxy, offered to cease their invasion if the Jedi were turned over to them, Cheklev's fellow Devaronians attempted to sell him to the invaders. He was captured by the Yuuzhan Vong, but he escaped and made his way to the Jedi stronghold of Eclipse Station on the planet Eclipse. There, he led a team of scientists in studying pieces of the destroyed starship Sweet Surprise, which had been involved in a plot to smuggle a group of Jedi-hunting voxyn onto the galactic capital of Coruscant. Cheklev later played an important role in defeating the Yuuzhan Vong, and, after the end of the war, he attended a Jedi conclave on the living world Zonama Sekot. Hivrekh'wao'Cheklev was a Devaronian male from Devaron who was also known as Cheklev. He was active as a Jedi Knight in the New Jedi Order during the Yuuzhan Vong War. The war began in 25 ABY, when the extra-galactic Yuuzhan Vong commenced an invasion of the galaxy in the name of their gods, and the Jedi took an active role in helping the New Republic resist the bloodthirsty conquerors. One year into the conflict, the Yuuzhan Vong offered to halt their invasion if the Jedi were surrendered to them, and citizens across the galaxy began to turn against the Jedi Knights who were struggling to defend them. Cheklev was on his homeworld when his fellow Devaronians attempted to sell him to the Yuuzhan Vong. He was captured by the invaders, but he survived and was able to escape. Cheklev returned to the Jedi via the Great River, a series of hyperspace routes and strongholds that had been created for fugitive Jedi to take shelter from those who hunted them.The New Jedi Order: Edge of Victory II: Rebirth In 27 ABY, Cheklev was at Eclipse Station, a Jedi base on the Deep Core world of Eclipse. When a plot by the Weequay Plaan to smuggle several voxyn&mdash;creatures created by the Yuuzhan Vong to hunt Jedi&mdash;onto the galactic capital of Coruscant was foiled by several of the Jedi's allies, pieces of Plaan's destroyed starship, the Sweet Surprise, were brought to Eclipse Station for analysis. The Jedi healer Cilghal gave several Jedi Knights various assignments related to uncovering the location of the voxyn queen from which the creatures had been cloned, and she tasked Cheklev with studying the remains of the Sweet Surprise. He worked hard at the assignment, keeping twelve scientists who labored alongside him busy. Cilghal was soon able to pinpoint the queen at the planet Myrkr after discovering olbio leaves, flora native to Myrkr, inside the stomach of a captured voxyn corpse. The Yuuzhan Vong were defeated by the Jedi and the Galactic Alliance, the New Republic's successor state, in 29 ABY. Cheklev played an important part in the victory. Following the war's conclusion, Jedi Master Luke Skywalker called all of the surviving Jedi to Zonama Sekot, a living planet that he had discovered in the galaxy's Unknown Regions, and which had been instrumental in ending the war. Cheklev was one of many Jedi who attended the Conclave on Zonama Sekot. Skywalker addressed everyone present and asked them to consider how, with the war over, they could best serve the Force. Several years later, the scientist Mammon Hoole wrote about Cheklev and asserted that he was the most prominent male Devaronian Jedi in history. Cheklev was a Force-sensitive Knight of the New Jedi Order. He was able to escape from Yuuzhan Vong imprisonment early in the Yuuzhan Vong War, and he later played an important role in ending the conflict. Cheklev also had some scientific talents and was employed by Cilghal to lead a team of scientists in studying pieces of the destroyed starship Sweet Surprise. Mammon Hoole believed Cheklev to be the most prominent male Devaronian Jedi in the history of the galaxy. Hivrekh'wao'Cheklev was created by author Troy Denning for use in his 2001 novel, The New Jedi Order: Star by Star, the ninth book in The New Jedi Order series. Referred to simply as "Cheklev," the character received a single mention as someone who was keeping a group of scientists busy studying pieces of the Sweet Surprise. Denning did not specify a sex, a species, or explicitly identify Cheklev as a Jedi. Daniel Wallace's 2002 article Who's Who in the New Jedi Order, published in issue 57 of the Star Wars Insider magazine, established Cheklev as a male Devaronian Jedi Knight, gave the character a full name and a brief backstory, and provided an image of him. Cheklev was later mentioned in The New Jedi Order finale, James Luceno's 2003 novel, The New Jedi Order: The Unifying Force, as well as in the 2006 reference book The New Essential Guide to Alien Species. The two works misspelled his name as "Hivrech'wao'Cheklev" and "Hivrekh'wao'cheklev," respectively. The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia, released in 2008, included an entry on the character that was copied nearly verbatim from Who's Who in the New Jedi Order. *The New Jedi Order: Star by Star *The New Jedi Order: Star by Star abridged audiobook *The New Jedi Order: The Unifying Force *The New Jedi Order: The Unifying Force abridged audiobook *The New Essential Guide to Alien Species Category:Devaronians Category:Galactic Alliance individuals Category:Jedi Knights of the New Jedi Order Category:Males Category:New Republic individuals