13027
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Trid
Trid
6015

Trid was a capital city on the planet Danuta. The Brodsport engineers designed the streets of the town grid-style. It had few permanent inhabitants as most used it as an outpost during their duty. By 1 BBY, an Imperial garrison on the outskirts of Trid was expanded into a full military installment, and home to a sprawling research facility. It also contained a spaceport at the eastern end, a B'omarr Order Temple, a school, a fusion plant, and various homes and small businesses, such as Brodsport Mining Corporation and the Blue Moon cantina. There is also a town square with a water fountain, filled with garbage; nearby was a cafe with plastic tables and a hostess in her early teens. The western part had a small residential area for the scientists and their families, and it was more prosperous and clean. That area was between the city proper and the security buffer opening up to the Research Complex. A two-lane street led away to some farmhouses, and beyond them were the planet's badlands of hills and canyons. Trid was a slow and seedy city, with its population consisted of permanent colonists who worked hard in the mines and farms, and except the standard stormtrooper garrison and patrols who walked always in pairs, there were also temporary workers, such as Brodsport contract employees. There were also spacers, smugglers and aliens. One could also see out-of-place scholarly types, mostly scientists working in the Research Complex. Tractor-wagon combinations moved along the streets. A prefab settlement, the architecture was typical Imperial-era prefab, but the culture was colonial, typical of the rimworlds. Ground-floor windows were protected by iron bars while second-story balconies were decorated with hung- off planters. Shortly before the Battle of Yavin, the Imperial garrison on the outskirts of Trid was expanded into a full military instalment, home to a sprawling yet secret research facility visited by the Imperial Security Bureau and scientists, such as Bevel Lemelisk. The curious visits tipped off a rebel sympathizer who in turn informed the Alliance. Surveyance pictures from Trid showed that the city was too thickly populated, and a commando raid to acquire the schematics for the Operation Skyhook would cause collateral losses. Despite her reservations, Mon Mothma organized an assault and sent former Imperial officer and defector Kyle Katarn to what seemed a suicide mission.Dark Forces: Soldier for the Empire left|thumb|Kyle Katarn infiltrates the research facility. As a mercenary, Katarn was sent on a mission to cut through the Imperial station's reduced defenses. There, he found his old friend, Meck Odom, as an Imperial officer; however, Katarn was able to convert him to his side. Despite his skill and adrenaline, Katarn was on a few occasions saved by luck, and in the most intense moments of fighting, he found himself beginning to draw on the Force to sense things before seeing them—a reliance he did not yet fully understand. However, despite lower resistance, the facility was still heavily fortified with various security systems. Striking from a hidden base, the Rebel Alliance attacked the Imperial facility with starships and soldiersStar Wars: Lethal Alliance while Katarn would proceed with his mission to visit the place where the Death Star plans were hidden. The research facility seen in level one of Star Wars: Dark Forces was based in the city of Trid; however, the name "Trid" was not invented until the release of Dark Forces: Soldier for the Empire. *Dark Forces: Soldier for the Empire *Dark Forces: Soldier for the Empire audio drama *Star Wars: Dark Forces *Star Wars: Dark Forces Remaster *Dark Forces Official Player's Guide *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Capital cities Category:Danuta locations Category:Galactic Empire cities