13198
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Belgar
Belgar
4532

|celestialbody=Belgaroth |continent= |location= |climate=Temperate |interest=*Belgar Spaceport **Xot's Megabar |population=Less than 10 million |demonym=Belgarian |affiliation= }} Belgar was the capital city and only settlement of the planet Belgaroth, which, like the entire planet, was a drealy place devoid of any attractions. The planet Belgaroth in the Core Worlds was discovered by a pair of free explorers approximately six hundred years before the rise of the Galactic Empire. When colonization began, both discoverers worked hard to turn the planet into a bustling waystation and trade hub. However, before their dreams could be put into action, they killed each other during a «friendly» card game – a grim omen of the hard times that would await the planet in the future. left|thumb|280px|The planet of Belgaroth For centuries after its discovery, Belgaroth remained a minor waystation with one miserable city and a few junkyards on its surface – a dreary cluster of sediment-streaked buildings, cheap bars, flophouses, and a scattering of trade stalls. Six hangars, three warehouses, a control tower, two repair bays, and an electronic array building together made up the barely serviceable spaceport of Belgar. Due to mineral-rich rains, most of the buildings appeared rusted and muddy. The vast majority of locals were humans – descendants of the first settlers. The rest were mostly refugees, runaways, fugitives, and wanderers. The racial makeup of the population shifted from year to year, but a notable number of Rodians, Twi’leks, and Sullustans visited the planet regularly. Politics interested them little – far more important was the constant struggle for material security, or better yet, the chance to leave the planet. In keeping with the philosophy of «live and let live», Belgaroth had virtually no real government. The city of Belgar was run by a so-called «City Boss», whose decrees were taken more as suggestions. The planet’s political system was best described as a «benevolent anarchy». right|thumb|280px|Map of the [[Belgar Spaceport|city spaceport]] When the Empire came to power, the Imperial Navy Department decided it needed an insignificant world to test new weapons and conduct training maneuvers. Belgaroth became the «lucky» world chosen for the task. The planet’s sluggish and constantly shifting population offered even less resistance to the Empire’s arrival than most other worlds. In fact, for some, the Empire was a welcome guest – it brought money, ships, and jobs. Nevertheless, Belgar changed little; during the Imperial presence and the Civil War, the largest and most impressive buildings were the Imperial headquarters and the barracks. Before long, the New Republic took control of the planet but found only an abandoned Imperial installation, a handful of broken-down TIE fighters, and a single decrepit city. The people of Belgar greeted this change of rule with the same indifference they had shown to the Empire’s arrival years earlier. After the flags were switched, the «City Boss» found a new use for the abandoned Imperial headquarters and barracks – they were converted into the administration building and residential quarters. The city of Belgar was created for the Coruscant and the Core Worlds sourcebook for the Star Wars Roleplaying Game by Wizards of the Coast. In the informational section on the planet Belgaroth, the book provides a brief description of the city and other locations associated with the planet. The sourcebook suggested starting one of the game scenarios – «An Unexpected Stop» – in Belgar’s spaceport. *Coruscant and the Core Worlds Category:Belgaroth locations Category:Capital cities