13247
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Liberator-class_cruiser
Liberator-class cruiser
7397

The Liberator-class cruiser, also Liberator Cruiser, was a powerful frontline capital ship designed by the SoroSuub Corporation to combat piracy. Although slender and small in size, the cruiser boasted a formidable array of weaponry comprising of turbolaser and ion cannon batteries, and could carry a complement of six starfighter squadrons and three troop regiments. Utilized by both the Sullustan Home Guard and the Rebel Alliance during the Galactic Civil War, the Liberator featured cutting-edge armor plating, shielding, and drive unit technology that made it one of the galaxy's most advanced warships. The Liberator-class cruiser, also known as the Liberator Cruiser, was a well-armed capital ship manufactured by the Sullustan&ndash;run SoroSuub Corporation. Although diminutive in size, the Liberator-class cruiser bristled with offensive firepower, including turbolasers, and ion cannons. The Liberator's slender body disguised its capacity to carry up to six starfighter squadrons and three troop regiments. The cruiser was also equipped with a hyperdrive. Irregularly hexagonal in shape, the Liberator's prow extended in twin slanted mandibles, at the recessed center of which lay two exposed launch bays. With excellent shielding, state-of-the-art hull armor, and new drive unit technology, the Liberator-class cruiser stood as one of the most advanced warships in the galaxy. Designed as an antipiracy vessel, the Liberator-class cruiser was built to take on entire armadas of small pirate craft and proved effectively capable of frontline space combat. While formidable against other enemy capital ships, the Liberator tended to be somewhat vulnerable to attacking starfighters. During the Galactic Civil War, the Liberator-class cruiser numbered among the capital ship designs serving in the Sullustan Home Guard, a fleet established by the SoroSuub Corporation to defend the planet Sullust from pirate raids. The Alliance to Restore the Republic also utilized the Liberator among its naval forces following the Battle of Yavin. The Liberator Cruiser was an original starship model created for the 1998 PC game Star Wars: Rebellion. The cruiser is available to the Rebel Alliance during gameplay as an advanced design over the Alliance escort carrier. Strongholds of Resistance, a 2015 supplemental sourcebook for Fantasy Flight Games' Star Wars: Age of Rebellion roleplaying game, later renamed the ship the Liberator-class cruiser. *Star Wars: Rebellion *Star Wars: Rebellion: Prima's Official Strategy Guide *Strongholds of Resistance Category:Cruiser classes Category:SoroSuub Corporation products Category:Starship classes of the Alliance to Restore the Republic