13516
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Adye_Prittick
Adye Prittick
5707

Adye Prittick was a male admiral serving in the navy of the Galactic Empire. In 4 ABY, Prittick was one of the Imperial officers who survived the Imperial defeat at the Battle of Endor, being the ranking admiral following the Imperial Death Squadron's withdrawal to the planet Annaj. He sent a personal communiqué to Governor Wilek Nereus of Bakura, informing him of the destruction of the second Death Star and the deaths of Emperor Palpatine and the Sith Lord Darth Vader at Endor. Prittick's inability to determine Death Squadron's course of action led to a schism that saw several fleet officers take their forces and depart, effectively ruling out, in the admiral's mind, a renewed attack on the Rebel fleet at Endor. By 4 ABY, Adye Prittick, a male, was serving as an admiral in the Galactic Empire's navy. In that same year, Prittick watched as the Rebel Alliance dealt a severe blow to the Empire at the Battle of Endor, which saw the destruction of the Empire's second Death Star battle station and the deaths of Emperor Palpatine and the Sith Lord Darth Vader. With the Imperial fleet in disarray near the end of the battle, command fell to Gilad Pellaeon, captain of the Star Destroyer Chimaera, who ordered the Imperial Death Squadron to retreat to nearby Annaj. Upon the fleet's arrival above the planet, it was determined that Prittick was the ranking admiral in command. Prittick relayed news of the defeat at Endor, adding that the remnants of the Imperial fleet from the battle were regrouping near Annaj, to Governor Wilek Nereus of Bakura. When Nereus received this message, he revealed the transmission's contents to his dinner guests&mdash;among them, Rebels Luke Skywalker and Princess Leia Organa, who had earlier aided Bakura's Imperial forces in repelling an invasion by the xenophobic Ssi-ruuk. Prittick's communiqué confirmed for Nereus that the Rebels' story of the events at Endor was true. While the ranking commander, Prittick was unable to determine the fleet's next course of action, leading to a schism that saw Admiral Blitzer Harrsk and other officers depart with their vessels. As a result, Death Squadron was reduced to twelve Star Destroyers&mdash;too few, in Prittick's opinion, to ensure victory should the fleet return to Endor to resume the fight. Instead, he ordered the fleet to withdraw to the planet Yag'Dhul. Though the ranking admiral of Death Squadron following the Imperial defeat at Endor, Adye Prittick was unable to develop a course of action for the fleet remnants at Annaj. This indecision was the catalyst for the fleet's subsequent breakup. Admiral Prittick was first mentioned, in a single line of dialogue by Governor Nereus, in The Truce at Bakura, written by Kathy Tyers and released in 1994. He was given the first name "Adye" in 2012's The Essential Guide to Warfare. *The Truce at Bakura *The Truce at Bakura Sourcebook *The Essential Guide to Warfare Category:Imperial Navy admirals of the Galactic Empire Category:Males