13896
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Mytaranor
Mytaranor
5271

Mytaranor was a bleak industrial world located in the Mytaranor system, a part of the Kashyyyk Region's Mytaranor sector in the Slice portion of the Mid Rim. The hyperlane known as the Nightroad linked it to the Tholatin system as well as the Terr'skiar sector's Pizilis system. A notorious galactic shadowport, Mytaranor was best known for its thriving slaver underground, which included such groups as the Mytaranor Slaving Council that was founded at some point by 1 BBY.Alliance Intelligence Reports represents a collection of in-universe reports from "one year before the Battle of Hoth," which corresponds to 2 ABY, according to The New Essential Chronology. The former book establishes that the Mytaranor Slaving Council existed approximately three years prior to the work's setting, therefore it must have been founded at some point by 1 BBY. At some point, slavers based at Mytaranor interacted with the native inhabitants of the world Bimmisaari, and Graxol Kelvyyn, an Anx slave trader operating throughout the Outer Rim Territories around 32 BBY, establishes that Graxol Kelvyyn operated as a enslaver at the same time he attended Podraces on Tatooine. depicts Kelvyyn attending the planet's Boonta Eve Classic Podrace, and The New Essential Chronology dates the film's events to 32 BBY. associated with a network of slave smugglers of which some made their living at Mytaranor. On the date 36:4:20, the Galactic Empire nationalized the megacorporation Bansche Tech on the planet Chamble on the suspicion that the company was selling assassin droid components to criminal factions including Mytaranor-based slavers. Mytaranor was first mentioned in "The University of Sanbra Guide to Intelligent Life: The Anx," a roleplaying source article published in the seventh issue of the Star Wars Gamer magazine on October 16, 2001 for use with Wizards of the Coast's Star Wars Roleplaying Game. The 2009 reference book The Essential Atlas placed the world in grid square P-10. *The Essential Atlas Category:Factory worlds Category:Locations along the Nightroad Category:Mytaranor sector locations Category:Planets in the Mid Rim Category:Planets in the Slice Category:Shadowports Category:Slavery worlds