14144
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Heavy_Artillery_Gun
Heavy Artillery Gun
5506

}} The Heavy Artillery Gun (HAG) was a mobile repulsorlift artillery piece used by the Trade Federation and superficially resembled their Multi-Troop Transports. The HAG greatly resembled the MTT, but replaced the troop carrier bay with a massive artillery cannon, which had tremendous range. It had heavy armor which made it very resistant to laser cannons though bombs proved effective at destroying them. It had very poor speed and maneuverability, and needed to anchor itself in place with two stabilizer paddles in order to fire its main cannon. The HAG saw its first major engagement during the Trade Federation's Invasion of Naboo in 32 BBYStar Wars: Starfighter takes place during the Invasion of Naboo. The New Essential Chronology establishes that the invasion happens in 32 BBY. while attacking a Naboo resistance base. Though the HAGs held the potential to devastate the turrets protecting the encampment, their heavy armor did not protect them from the powerful explosives of Havoc, Nym's personal craft, as he helped defend the encampment. Later, they took part in the battle with the Gungan Grand army. During the Clone Wars, the HAGs were also used by the Confederacy of Independent Systems. In 21 BBY,"The Feral Queen" is set around the time of "Heroes on Both Sides" (21 BBY), which marks the debut of revamped appearances for several main characters. Considering that the comics featured in Star Wars Comic UK are published in chronological order, and that "Burn the Behemoth!" is the first comic in the series to feature the new character models, it can be concluded that "The Feral Queen" takes place in 21 BBY. they were used in the siege of Felacat, encroaching on the Royal Felacatian Palace. The Jedi Padawan Ahsoka Tano was sent to secure Quene Miaria Prrt after a month of struggle. The Queen rebuffed her, and used her polymorphic abilities to change and charge the droid army. She inspired her people to do the same, and the battle ended with the droid forces torn apart. The HAG first appeared in the 2001 video game Star Wars: Starfighter. *Star Wars: Starfighter *Star Wars: The Clone Wars video game *Star Wars: Starfighter: Prima's Official Strategy Guide *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Baktoid Armor Workshop products Category:Droid tank models Category:Mobile artillery types Category:Vehicle classes of the Confederacy of Independent Systems Category:Vehicle classes of the Trade Federation