14257
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Aldraig_IV
Aldraig IV
12053

|water= |interest=*An AT-AT production facility *A TIE fighter hull assembly facility |flora=Trees |fauna=A bird species |otherlife= |species= |otherspecies= |socialgroup= |language= |government= |population= |demonym= |cities= |imports= |exports= |affiliation=*Galactic RepublicThe Essential Guide to Warfare &mdash; Based on corresponding data for Aldraig system *Galactic Empire }} Aldraig IV was a Core Worlds planet located on the Hydian Way super-hyperroute. Its surface featured forests and a picturesque countryside. During the Alsakan Conflicts, the planet was affiliated with the Galactic Republic's capital world, Coruscant. Tens of millennia later, Aldraig IV was the homeworld of the child prodigy artist Gayla Riemann, who eventually traveled off-world. During her absence, the Galactic Empire initialized an industrialization process on the planet, establishing a production facility for AT-AT walkers as well as a TIE fighter hull assembly plant that endangered the population of a local bird. When she returned to Aldraig IV, Riemann led protest activities and eventually became involved with a local anti-Imperial underground resistance movement, helping it severely damage the TIE fighter plant. Afterward, Riemann was smuggled off-planet and joined the Rebel Alliance. Aldraig IV, also referred to simply as Aldraig, was a terrestrial planet that occupied the fourth orbital position in the Aldraig system. It was a part of the Arrowhead, or the Slice portion of the Core Worlds. By 3705 BBY, Aldraig IV was situated between the Demophon and Skako systems on the hyperspace route known as the Brentaal–Denon Route. At some point following 3694 BBY, the hyperlane was integrated into the galaxy-spanning Hydian Way super-hyperroute. Aldraig IV's surface featured large expanses of pristine forests, and there were picturesque landscapes in the planet's countryside. The world's southern polar region was home to a rare species of bird. thumb|left|300px|During the conflicts between the Galactic Republic worlds Coruscant and Alsakan, Aldraig IV was allied with the former. Aldraig IV fell within the borders of the Galactic Republic as early as 17,000 BBY. During the early Alsakan Conflicts, a series of wars that began in 17,018 BBY and saw the Republic's capital world Coruscant, the planet Alsakan, and their respective allies struggle over political and economic control over the Republic, Aldraig IV was affiliated with Coruscant. At some point, a bird inhabiting Aldraig IV's southern polar region was hunted nearly to extinction. Subsequently, during the childhood of the local Human Gayla Riemann, a concerted preservation effort was made that resulted in the species repopulating the region. During her time on her homeworld, Riemann also enjoyed painting the landscapes of its countryside. Eventually, she&mdash;being considered a child prodigy and an artist of interplanetary renown&mdash;moved offworld into the wider Core Worlds. By 6 BBY,, which is set during the Bakura Incident, establishes that the Galactic Empire established an industrial presence on Aldraig IV over the course of at least a decade. The New Essential Chronology dates the Bakura Incident to 4 ABY, meaning that the Imperial activities on Aldraig IV began at some point by 6 BBY. the Galactic Empire began the process of industrializing Aldraig IV. Many of the planet's counties were "restructured" from agricultural production to the manufacturing of weapons. Large tracts of woodland over the territory of several counties were cleared in order to establish a facility for producing Imperial All Terrain Armored Transport (AT-AT) walkers. In addition, in Aldraig IV's south polar area Sienar Fleet Systems constructed a plant for assembling TIE fighter hulls, with that activity threatening the survival of the population of the local birds. Over time, an underground resistance movement supported by the Rebel Alliance began operating on the planet. thumb|right|300px|Gayla Riemann was involved with the anti-Imperial resistance on her native Aldraig IV. Eventually tiring of the elitist artistic community of the rest of the Core Worlds, Riemann returned to Aldraig IV, where she longed to paint the local landscapes again. Upon discovering the Imperial activities there, she staged a peaceful, well-documented protest against the construction of the Sienar Fleet Systems' facility. The local Imperial governor Talloryn, however, had the protesters, including Riemann, arrested and the relevant news reports silenced. After her release from incarceration, Riemann began covertly helping the Aldraig resistance. The underground movement sabotaged the Sienar facility, although the Empire later learned of Riemann's involvement with their activities. As part of a "probation" process, Talloryn ordered Riemann to paint portraits of the Imperial officers stationed on Aldraig IV as well as create a series of paintings of the TIE plant. Unbeknownst to the governor, however, Riemann used the latter work as cover to develop a floor plan of the facility that she subsequently delivered to the resistance. The Aldraig underground then proceeded to destroy its power core and production floor, after which the artist was smuggled off-planet and, not long before the Battle of Endor and the Bakura Incident of 4 ABY,The New Essential Chronology joined the Rebel Alliance. During the latter campaign, Riemann mused that, like her, Princess Leia Organa of the Core Worlds planet Alderaan had also lost her beautiful homeworld to the Empire&mdash;although in Organa's case, it had happened in the span of a moment rather than a decade, with the Empire having destroyed Alderaan with the Death Star battle station's superlaser four years prior. At least a part of Aldraig IV was administratively divided into counties, at least several of which were devoted to agricultural production. At some point, the world's inhabitants hunted a local species of bird. The planet was the homeworld of the female Human Gayla Riemann. During the reign of the Galactic Empire, a number of Imperial officers were stationed on the planet, and a local underground resistance movement also operated there. The Galactic Empire established an All Terrain Armored Transport production facility on Aldraig IV as well as a TIE fighter hull assembly facility in its southern polar region. Aldraig IV was first mentioned in Kathy Tyers and Eric S. Trautmann's 1996 The Truce at Bakura Sourcebook of West End Games' Star Wars: The Roleplaying Game, including in the short companion narrative "Akin from Afar." The 2009 reference book The Essential Atlas placed the Aldraig system, and therefore Aldraig IV, in grid square M-10. *The Truce at Bakura Sourcebook *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia *The Essential Atlas *The Essential Guide to Warfare Category:Factory worlds Category:Galactic Empire planets Category:Galactic Republic planets Category:Locations along the Hydian Way Category:Planets in the Arrowhead Category:Planets in the Core Worlds Category:Terrestrial planets