14247
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Ukatis
Ukatis
5842

Ukatis was an Inner Rim celestial body situated in the Ukatis system. During the blockade of the system at some point by 3996 BBY, the Ukatis enforcer Nayama shot down the starship of Jedi Padawan and smuggler Jolee Bindo, forcing it to crash-land on Ukatis. Nayama then led Bindo to be incarcerated in a local prison, from which he was subsequently broken out. Thereafter, the Padawan kidnapped Nayama, though the two later fell in love and would eventually marry and leave Ukatis. Ukatis was a terrestrial celestial body located in the Ukatis system, a part of the Western Reaches portion of the Inner Rim. thumb|right|290px|By 3959 BBY, Ukatis was situated in the area widely explored by the Galactic Republic. At some point by 3996 BBY,Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic establishes that Jolee Bindo's starship was shot down over Ukatis at some point before the Great Sith War, which The Essential Atlas dates to 3996 BBY. the king of the Ukatis system ordered its blockade in order to oppress the local citizens. Eventually, the Jedi Padawan Jolee Bindo, after acquiring a starship and a partner, began smuggling food and supplies through the blockade. At one point, the Ukatis enforcer Nayama, operating aboard a lone Ukatish frigate, shot Bindo's craft down and forced it to crash-land on Ukatis. The enforcer then dragged the Padawan to the local capital, where he was imprisoned, and subsequently thwarted three of his escape attempts. Ultimately, Bindo was broken out of the prison and kidnapped Nayama. At some point thereafter, the two fell in love and married, Bindo trained Nayama as a Jedi, and the two eventually traveled offworld. By 3959 BBY, Ukatis fell within the "civilized galaxy," the territory that had been widely explored by the Galactic Republic. In 3956 BBY,The Essential Atlas dates the events of Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic to 3956 BBY. Bindo relayed the story of his crash-landing on Ukatis to the Jedi trainee Revan. Ukatis was the site of a capital city that featured a prison. Ukatis was introduced in the 2003 BioWare video game Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic. In the game, the celestial body can be mentioned in an optional conversation the player character, Revan, can have with Jolee Bindo. This article assumes one hundred percent game completion and that the conversation took place as described. The 2009 reference book The Essential Atlas placed the Ukatis system, and therefore Ukatis itself, in grid square L-15. *Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic *The Essential Atlas Category:Astronomical objects in the Inner Rim Category:Astronomical objects in the Western Reaches Category:Terrestrial astronomical objects