14375
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Tyan
Tyan
5586

Tyan was a Mid Rim planet located in the Tyan sector. By 76 BBY, it was represented in the Galactic Republic by Senator Galim Eddawan, whose cruiser was captured by the pirate Lorian Nod, with Eddawan not being seen again afterward. In 12 ABY, Tyan was a member of the New Republic and was the site of a battle of the Galactic Civil War. Tyan was a planet located in the Vvan system, a part of the Tyan sector in the New Territories portion of the Mid Rim. It was situated on the Entralla Route hyperlane, which linked it to the Ord Tessebok system in the Irishi sector and the Yout system of the Qiilura sector. Another hyperspace route connected Tyan to the Osskorn system as well as the Corthenia system of the Corthenia sector. By around 76 BBY,The Essential Reader's Companion dates the section of Legacy of the Jedi in which Tyan is mentioned to 76 BBY. Galim Eddawan served as a senator representing Tyan in the Galactic Republic. On the day that preceded a point during that year, Eddawan and his daughter Joli Ti were scheduled to arrive at the Alpha Nonce port station; however, their cruiser was captured by a group of pirates led by the former Jedi trainee Lorian Nod, with neither the senator nor his daughter ever being seen again. When Joli Ti later mentioned Tyan in a voice recording that Nod used as bait in order to capture Senator Blix Annon, Jedi Knight Dooku asked his acquaintance, the senatorial aide Eero Iridian, for information on the planet. Eighty-eight years later, Tyan fell within the borders of the New Republic. That year, the 181st Imperial Fighter Wing of the Imperial Remnant was victorious over the New Republic's Executor-class Star Dreadnought Lusankya in a confrontation at Tyan as part of the Orinda campaign of the Galactic Civil War. Tyan was first mentioned in Jude Watson's 2003 young reader novel Legacy of the Jedi. The 2009 reference book The Essential Atlas placed the Tyan system, and thereby the planet, in grid square K-7. *Legacy of the Jedi *The Essential Guide to Warfare Category:Galactic Republic planets Category:Locations along the Entralla Route Category:New Republic planets Category:Planets in the Mid Rim Category:Planets in the New Territories Category:Tyan sector locations