14557
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Rannd_Delckis
Rannd Delckis
11029

|gender=Male |pronouns=He/him |height= |mass= |hair=Blond |feathers= |eyes= |skin= |cyber= |families=new |parents=new |partners=new |siblings=new |children=new |affiliation=*Galactic Empire **Imperial Navy *Virgillian Free Alignment **Virgillian Free Alignment Starfleet *Alliance to Restore the Republic **Alliance Fleet |masters= |apprentices= }} Rannd Delckis was a Human male lieutenant of the Virgillian Free Alignment who served aboard the Quasar Fire-class bulk cruiser Flurry as communications officer during the latter stages of the Virgillian Civil War, and later went into the service of the Alliance to Restore the Republic in the Galactic Civil War. He was killed on board the Flurry during the Battle of Bakura in 4 ABY. Rannd Delckis was born into a noble family; his parents were part of the autocratic government of the Virgillia system, the Aristocracy, which was embroiled in the Virgillian Civil War against the Virgillian Free Alignment. As the Aristocracy was allied with the Galactic Empire, he grew up with the privileges of being an Imperial citizen. While attending the Imperial Academy, he earned a reputation as "up-and-coming officer material" and graduated in the top third of his class. After graduation, he was commissioned to the rank of ensign in the Imperial Navy. Delckis embarked on his first assignment shortly before the Battle of Endor in 4 ABYThe Essential Atlas as a junior communications assistant aboard the Victory-class Star Destroyer Stormwind, which was part of the small Imperial armada stationed in the Virgillia system. The Stormwind patrolled the system for Free Alignment activity, as well as for the presence of the Alliance to Restore the Republic, which had become an ally of the Free Alignment, supplying them with arms and ships. When the commanding officer, Captain Jarroth, received word from one of the Imperial spies in the system that there was a suspected Free Alignment camp on Virgillia's forested moon, Delckis was assigned to the landing party charged with investigating this claim. Upon finding the encampment, it became clear that the inhabitants were refugees, including many women and children. Despite this, Captain Jarroth was convinced the camp was sheltering Free Alignment fighters, and authorized stormtroopers to use torture to extract intel from the refugees. This was unsuccessful in gaining any intelligence, but was successful in killing multiple refugees. When the refugees tried to fight back, the stormtroopers slaughtered the entire camp. thumb|right|300px|Delckis served most of his time with the Free Alignment on the Flurry. Witnessing this was a watershed moment for Delckis, who began to reconsider his perception of the Aristocracy and the Empire. Rumours that he had previously dismissed, thinking them ridiculous, became far more plausible in light of the cruelty he had seen with his own eyes. He realized it was possible that the Empire had actually destroyed entire planets with superweapons and put down revolts with poison gas, and that it was the Aristocracy that had forced the refugees to flee to such a miserable camp in the first place. Troubled by the idea of working to enforce a regime that had such disregard for sentient life, he defected to the Free Alignment shortly after the attack. Delckis was the only member of the nobility to ever defect, so the Free Alignment initially met him with hostility and distrust, believing him a double agent. He soon proved himself to Captain Tessa Manchisco, who came to value him so highly that she requested that Delckis be assigned to her ship when she was given command of the Quasar Fire-class bulk cruiser Flurry. The Flurry was one of eight bulk cruisers donated to the Virgillian Free Alignment Starfleet in the last few weeks of the war, and was the ship Delckis spent most of his service on during his time with the Free Alignment. He gained the rank of Lieutenant and received two commendations for his excellence with communications systems and sensors, greatly assisting the war effort by using his Imperial training against the Empire that had taught him. The Free Alignment eventually won the Virgillian Civil War, and shortly afterwards the new Virgillian government sent a task force to join the Alliance to Restore the Republic in fighting in the Battle of Endor. He remained aboard the Flurry during the battle and went on to serve during the Bakura Incident under the command of Luke Skywalker, in which the Rebel Alliance sent ships to the Bakura system in response to a plea for aid from the Imperial government on the planet Bakura, which was facing an extra-galactic invasion from the Ssi-ruuvi Imperium. Despite the established truce between the Imperials and Rebel Alliance in the face of their common enemy, he was killed with the rest of the Flurry crew when the ship was destroyed by the Imperial Carrack-class light cruiser Dominant during the Battle of Bakura in 4 ABY. He was posthumously decorated by the Alliance for his sacrifice.The Essential Guide to Vehicles and Vessels Rannd Delckis was a tall male Human with a muscular build and blond hair cropped short in the fashion popular with Imperial officers at the time. He had the air of a professional, and did not allow his relative lack of combat experience to hinder his excellence as an officer. Delckis was a talented communications officer, intimately familiar with the communications technology used by the Empire and skilled at modifying and manipulating it to achieve functions it was not designed for. His ability was used to great effect by the Free Alignment to fool and confuse Imperial and Alignment systems. He was also fluent in multiple languages and knowledgeable about alien species. Delckis carried a DL-18 Blaster Pistol and wore a cream-coloredThe Truce at Bakura establishes that Tessa Manchisco wore a cream-colored uniform and The Truce at Bakura Sourcebook establishes that Manchisco and Delckis wore the same uniform. Free Alignment uniform. *The Truce at Bakura *The Truce at Bakura Sourcebook *The Essential Guide to Vehicles and Vessels *The New Essential Guide to Vehicles and Vessels *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Alliance Army officers Category:Humans Category:Imperial defectors Category:Individuals with he/him pronouns Category:Males Category:Officers of the Galactic Empire Category:Virgillian Free Alignment members