14555
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Breath_control
Breath control
4728

*New Jedi OrderLegacy of the Force: Invincible }} Using the Force power breath control, a Force Sensitive could suppress the body's instinct to shut itself down after long periods without oxygen, allowing the user to be able to go without breathing for longer periods than they would ordinarily be able to, by using the Force to reserve the amounts of air in their lungs. It was believed that some practitioners of the ability could hold their breath for hours or even days by using the technique. This ability used independently, however, would not prevent anything entering or leaving the respiratory system of the user. In some cases, the user would require some kind of Force barrier in, or around the nose/throat region to keep poisonous gases or water out. The necessity of such a barrier would depend on the air/water pressure in the direct vicinity, and the user's ability to naturally seal their airways. This ability proved to be very effective in situations where the air was very thin, underwater, or in any environment with toxic fumes. Meetra Surik, having learned this power from Kreia, used it to negate the poisonous gases in the Jekk'Jekk Tarr bar on Nar Shaddaa. At the time of the Invasion of Naboo, Qui-Gon Jinn and Obi-Wan Kenobi used this power for a short time when the Trade Federation attempted to poison them by flooding the room they were in with Dioxis. Kenobi also used this power when he fell into a pool of water when Cody ordered him shot down during Order 66.Star Wars: Revenge of the Sith In 19 ABY, Luke Skywalker used the power when he thought a group of pirates were pumping gas into a room, while they were actually pumping air out. He also used it alongside his wife when they helped put out a fire on the Chaf Envoy.Survivor's Quest Jaina Solo used it when the Galactic Alliance Guard attempted to gas her and her mother in a speeder. Solo mused that while she could breathe for long amounts of time in space using the power, it was more difficult to use the power while trying to survive gas, as oxygen was just inches away, while in space, her mind understood that there was no oxygen. *Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic II: The Sith Lords *Star Wars: The Old Republic *Knight Errant Deluge 5 *Jedi Apprentice: The Ties That Bind *Star Wars: Episode I The Phantom Menace (novelization) *Star Wars: Episode I The Phantom Menace (junior novelization) *Jedi Quest: The Moment of Truth *Star Wars: Revenge of the Sith novelization *Specter of the Past *Survivor's Quest *Legacy of the Force: Invincible *Star Wars Gamemaster Screen, Revised *Tales of the Jedi Companion *Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic II: The Sith Lords: Prima Official Game Guide Category:Control powers