14897
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Cortella
Cortella
5386

Cortella was a Core Worlds planet ruled by a monarchy. In 25 BBY, the Human Jedi Knights Obi-Wan Kenobi and Siri Tachi impersonated the king and queen of Cortella in order to infiltrate the elite Leadership School on the planet Andara. During a meeting with the school's president, in which they negotiated a permission to carry out a tour of the establishment, the Jedi pretended to be interested in sending their son to attend the school. Cortella was a little-known planet located in the Cortella system of the Core Worlds. thumb|right|300px|Siri Tachi (left) and Obi-Wan Kenobi (right) impersonated the queen and king of Cortella while infiltrating the Leadership School on Andara. Cortella was ruled by a monarchy. In 25 BBY,The Essential Reader's Companion while investigating the elite Leadership School on the Core WorldsThe Essential Atlas &mdash; Based on corresponding data for Andaran system planet Andara, the Human Jedi Knights Obi-Wan Kenobi and Siri Tachi realized they needed a suitable cover for infiltrating the establishment. To that end, Kenobi came up with a plan for them to impersonate the king and queen of Cortella in order to be able to go on a tour of the school. After contacting within minutes Kenobi's acquaintance, the Galactic Republic Senatorial aide Tyro Caladian, to help rapidly procure false identity documents, the two Jedi met with the president of the Leadership School, having contacted him under the pretense of considering the school for their supposed son, a prince. During the meeting, the Jedi wore traveler's tunics, which the pair rationalized as being intentionally inconspicuous. Tachi had not changed her appearance significantly, having only slicked her hair back more, and Kenobi attempted to affect a pompous manner of speech. During the conversation with the president&mdash;who considered the interest by the monarchs of Cortella an honor&mdash;the Jedi claimed they were alternatively considering a school on the Core Worlds planetThe Essential Atlas Alderaan and eventually negotiated a permission to carry out an unguided tour of the Leadership School. Cortella was first mentioned in The School of Fear, Jude Watson's 2003 fifth installment of the Star Wars: Jedi Quest young-reader novel series. The 2009 reference book The Essential Atlas placed the Cortella system, and therefore the planet itself, in grid square K-9. *Jedi Quest: The School of Fear *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Planets in the Core Worlds