14854
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Sif-Uwana
Sif-Uwana
4792

|population= |demonym=Sif-Uwani |cities= |imports= |exports= |affiliation=*AlsakanThe Essential Guide to Warfare *Galactic Republic }} Sif-Uwana was a planet within the Colonies area of the galaxy. It was the homeworld of the individuals known as Sif-Uwani and was administered by the Sif-Uwana Council. The planet was controlled by Alsakan during the Alsakan Conflicts but was eventually lost to the Galactic Republic. At some point, the Emperor's agent Mara Jade visited the world. Sif-Uwana was a planet of the Sif-Uwana system, within the Colonies region of the galaxy. The individuals native to Sif-Uwana were called the Sif-Uwani, known for their casual way to approach money and management. The world was ruled by the Sif-Uwana Council, an organization composed only of Sif-Uwani. Eventually falling within the Northern Dependencies, Sif-Uwana was under Alsakan control during the Alsakan Conflicts, but a few hundred years after the Fifth Alsakan Conflicts ended, the world fell within the Alsakan's opponents' grip, namely the Galactic Republic's. By 0 BBY, the thief Kels Turkhorn, had acquired a certified Sif-Uwana credit voucher. At some point, the Emperor's Hand Mara Jade, traveled to the planet for business reasons, under the orders of Emperor Palpatine, the leader of the dominant galactic government, the Galactic Empire,Star Wars Encyclopedia which also controlled the territory Sif-Uwana fell in. Around 6 ABY, the smuggler Talon Karrde posed as a Sif-Uwani chief purchasing agent of the Sif-Uwani Council, during diplomatic negatiations on the world Kaal, claiming that the Sif-Uwani Council wished to set up their own harvesting operations on the Unis Islands. Two years later, Karrde would pose again as the Sif-Uwani agent, during an investigation on the planet Varonat. Sif-Uwana was first mentioned in the 1994 Timothy Zahn's First Contact, a short story published within Star Wars Adventure Journal 1. In 2009, the planet was mentioned in the reference book The Essential Atlas, written by Jason Fry and Daniel Wallace, which placed it in grid square K-8. *Star Wars Encyclopedia *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia *The Essential Atlas *The Essential Guide to Warfare Category:Galactic Republic planets Category:Planets in the Colonies Category:Planets in the Northern Dependencies