14888
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Thracior
Thracior
6594

|population= |demonym= |cities= |imports= |exports= |affiliation= }} Thracior was a Core Worlds planet that was home to a clan-based culture. In 32 BBY, the planet's warlords began arguing over territory, leading to raids between the local tribes. As a result, the parents of the Human siblings Dane and Floria, who were married despite being from different clans, were killed. Dane and Floria escaped death and subsequently moved to a space station. 27 BBY, Floria told Jedi Padawan Anakin Skywalker about her and Dane's past at Thracior. Thracior was a planet located in the Thracior system. It was a part of the Southern Core portion of the Core Worlds. thumb|right|180px|Floria told Anakin Skywalker (pictured) about her and her brother's past at Thracior. The Human siblings Floria, who was born around 41 BBY,Jedi Quest: The Trail of the Jedi, which is set in 27 BBY per The Essential Reader's Companion, establishes that Floria is around fourteen years old at the time of its events. and her slightly older brother Dane grew up at Thracior, in the family of a man from the Tantt clan and a woman from the Hnsi clan. The family lived in a house, with Dane and Floria growing up in peaceful times. In 32 BBY,Jedi Quest: The Trail of the Jedi, which is set in 27 BBY per The Essential Reader's Companion, establishes that the warlords of Thracior began arguing over territory five years earlier. however, warlords at Thracior commenced arguing over territory, giving rise to raids between the planet's tribes. Due to the inter-clan marriage of Dane and Floria's parents, the latter were killed, with their house being burned down and their younger daughter also being killed. Dane and Floria were able to escape, and eventually, having lost everything, they moved to a space station. Five years later, while hunting Jedi Knight Obi-Wan Kenobi and his Padawan, Anakin Skywalker, on the Core WorldsThe Essential Atlas &mdash; Based on corresponding data for Ragoon system planet Ragoon VI, Floria&mdash;who, together with Dane, had become bounty hunters&mdash;initially pretended while talking to Skywalker to be from the nearby planet Aaeton. Later, however, after the Jedi had discovered the bounty hunters' ruse, Floria admitted her lie and relayed to Skywalker her and her brother's upbringing and subsequent escape from Thracior. Thracior was home to a culture that organized itself into clans, including the Hnsi and Tantt clans, and featured different tribes as well as warlords. It was home to the Human siblings Dane and Floria. Thracior was first mentioned in The Trail of the Jedi, Jude Watson's 2002 second installment of the Star Wars: Jedi Quest young-reader novel series. The 2009 reference book The Essential Atlas placed the Thracior system, and therefore the planet itself, in grid square K-12. Although The Trail of the Jedi and later also Thracior's entry in 2008's The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia had placed the planet in the "Inner Core," The Essential Atlas overrode that placement by establishing the term as a synonym for the Arrowhead region, which it placed Thracior outside of. *Jedi Quest: The Trail of the Jedi *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia *The Essential Atlas Category:Planets in the Core Worlds Category:Planets in the Southern Core