14816
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Norne
Norne
5555

Norne was a world situated in the Core Worlds. It featured several cities that were home to homeless children. Norne was the homeworld of Mygo Skinto, who was orphaned and then, upon reaching the age of legal independence, forced to live on the streets due to her guardians having spent her inheritance. Skinto began to organize Norne's street children and eventually established a permanent home for them. By the time of the Battle of Yavin, she had also began traveling off-world in order to help the homeless children of other star systems, as well. Norne was a terrestrial world located in the Norne system of the Core Worlds. thumb|right|300px|Norne was the homeworld of Mygo Skinto (center). Norne was the homeworld of the female Human Mygo Skinto, who was born around 22 BBY.Cracken's Rebel Operatives, which is set shortly after the Battle of Yavin, gives Mygo Skinto's age as twenty-two, therefore she must have been born around 22 BBY per The New Essential Chronology. The yacht of Skinto's affluent parents disappeared when she was very young, leaving the ultimately orphaned child to be shuttled between various relatives who were only really interested in spending her wealth instead of taking care of her. When the well-educated Skinto reached the Norne age of independence, she was left destitute by her guardians having squandered her inheritance and was forced to live on the streets of her homeworld's cities. She wandered the streets, stealing food from street vendors and sleeping in alleys. Meanwhile, the adult population of Norne's urban centers largely overlooked Skinto on the account of her traumatic childhood experiences having resulted in the cessation of her body's physical development at an early age, giving her the appearance of a child. In contrast, the homeless children of the world's cities idolized Skinto and began to follow her. The woman in turn organized them, setting up routines for begging activities and negotiating agreements with the owners of stores. At some point, Skinto also established a permanent home for the children. In addition, she eventually realized that children in other star systems were living in similarly challenging conditions, and she vowed to help them as well, beginning to travel off-world and, in the process of her efforts, becoming affiliated with the Rebel Alliance. By the time shortly after the Battle of Yavin, Alliance General Airen Cracken mentioned Norne in an entry dedicated to Skinto of a datafile detailing various Rebel operatives. Norne had a single age, no more than twenty-two years old, at which an individual was considered legally independent. Norne featured several cities with alleys, shops, and street vendors. Mygo Skinto also established a permanent home for street children under her care in the form of a warren-like habitat situated in ancient maintenance tunnels of a city. Norne was created by Chuck Truett and was introduced in Cracken's Rebel Operatives, a 1994 West End Games sourcebook published for use with Star Wars: The Roleplaying Game. The 2009 reference book The Essential Atlas placed the Norne system, and therefore the world itself, in grid square K-10. *Cracken's Rebel Operatives Category:Planets in the Core Worlds Category:Planets in the Negs Category:Terrestrial planets