14900
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Rehemsa
Rehemsa
4735

Rehemsa was a Core Worlds celestial body located on the Corellian Run. Around 3671 BBY, the Human Felix Iresso was born at a refugee camp at Rehemsa to refugees of the Great Galactic War. Four millennia later, the Human botany researcher Chine Gabbard also hailed from Rehemsa, where he was an executive at the company Rehemsa Consumables. Rehemsa was a celestial body located in the Rehemsa system. It was a part of the Arrowhead, or the Slice portion of the Core Worlds. Rehemsa was situated between the Lolnar and Sedratis systems on the Corellian Run super-hyperroute, specifically on its segment that also formed a part of the hyperlane known as the Spin between approximately 17,000 BBY and 12,000 BBY.The Essential Guide to Warfare thumb|right|220px|Felix Iresso was born at Rehemsa. The Human future soldier of the Galactic Republic Felix Iresso was born around 3671 BBY at a Rehemsa refugee camp known as "Aven's Rest" to refugees of the Great Galactic War, which was fought from 3681 BBY to 3653 BBY between the Republic and the reconstituted Sith Empire. By the time of the reign of the Galactic Empire, which began in 19 BBY,The New Essential Chronology the astronomical object shared its name with the agricultural corporation Rehemsa Consumables. During the Empire's existence, the Human Chine Gabbard, who hailed from Rehemsa, was an executive at the company and also worked as a botany researcher at Garqi Agricultural University, an establishment on the Outer Rim Territories planet Garqi. Rehemsa was first mentioned in the 2004 Wizards of the Coast's Star Wars Roleplaying Game sourcebook Geonosis and the Outer Rim Worlds. The 2009 reference book The Essential Atlas placed the Rehemsa system, and therefore the celestial body itself, in grid square M-11. *Geonosis and the Outer Rim Worlds *The Essential Atlas *Star Wars: The Old Republic Encyclopedia Category:Astronomical objects in the Arrowhead Category:Astronomical objects in the Core Worlds Category:Locations along the Corellian Run