14973
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Stenness_Hyperspace_Terminal
Stenness Hyperspace Terminal
14573

|xyz= |orbited= |distance= |routes= |role=House and service hyperspace travelers |affiliation=Bogga's criminal empire |constructed= |destroyed= |retired= |battles=A confrontation |owners= |namedcrew= |captains= |registry= |aliases= |population= |interest=Many brothels, on levels 54&ndash;1000 |services=Multiple food courts, on four levels |sectors= |modules= }} The Stenness Hyperspace Terminal, also known as the Stenness Spaceport, was a space station located near a hyperspace beacon in the Stenness system in the Inner Rim. A multilevel construct located on the mining frontier, the terminal contained many vendors and traders, with hundreds of levels featuring brothels. Consequently, a large number of criminals on their way to stealing mining rights from the Nessies, the natives of the Stenness Node region, passed through the station. Stenness-based crime lord Bogga the Hutt and his gang also maintained a presence on the station. In 3999 BBY, Jedi Knight Andur Sunrider and his family, while on their way to deliver a package of valuable Adegan crystals to Jedi Master Thon, stopped on the Stenness Hyperspace Terminal. The crystals piqued the interest of Bogga, who sent three of his enforcers to retrieve them. Andur Sunrider was killed in the ensuing struggle, and his wife Nomi took up his lightsaber and struck down the thugs. Nomi Sunrider then left the Stenness Hyperspace Terminal in her ship, the Lightside Explorer, determined to finish her late husband's delivery. The Stenness Hyperspace TerminalTales of the Jedi 4 was a space station located near the Stenness system in the Inner Rim, and on the Whitebeam Run hyperspace route in the region known as the Slice. It was a large, gray, multilevel structure, with many wings and halls extending from its main frame. The spaceport had three levels that contained docking bays, four levels featuring food courts that sold foodstuffs such as Stenness lizard pie, and nine hundred forty-seven levels with brothels. As the Stenness Hyperspace Terminal had a high number of travelers that passed through, many traders and merchants wandered the halls, trying to sell wares such as Novanian grog liquor. thumb|right|250px|Bogga the Hutt, who operated on the Stenness Hyperspace Terminal In 3999 BBY, dates the events of Tales of the Jedi 2 to 3999 BBY. hyperspace beacons were vital to facilitate hyperspace travel. The beacons were constructed at jump points known to be safe and reliable, guiding the way for ships going into hyperspace.The Essential Atlas At many of the beacons complex spaceports were built, to house and service the ever-expanding trans-galactic traffic. One such beacon was located in the Stenness system in the Inner Rim, and it was at this site that the Stenness Hyperspace Terminal was created. The terminal was located on the mining frontier, and by 3999 BBY many criminals were known to pass through the station on their way to stealing mining rights from the natives of the Stenness Node region, the Nessies. Miners transported ores to the terminal on cargo ships made from carapaces of the gigantic Colossus wasps. In 3999 BBY, Jedi Knight Andur Sunrider and his family, while on their way to deliver a package of valuable Adegan crystals to the TchuukthaiPower of the Jedi Sourcebook Jedi Master Thon, docked at the Stenness Hyperspace Terminal in their ship, the Lightside Explorer. However, two of Stenness-based crime lord Bogga the Hutt's enforcers, Quanto and Gudb, discovered the package's existence through the use of on-station eavesdropping equipment. The two thugs brought the information to Bogga himself, piquing the Hutt's interest. thumb|left|250px|The Sunrider family arrives on the Stenness Hyperspace Terminal. Bogga assembled a group of three enforcers, consisting of Gudb, Rek, and Quanto, and sent them to accost the Sunriders as they waited for their ship to clear customs. Rek and Quanto began to push around Andur Sunrider's protocol droid, A-3DO, drawing the Jedi's attention; when Sunrider turned his back, Gudb released his pet gorm-worm, Skritch, who killed Sunrider with its poisonous bite. As Sunrider's wife, Nomi knelt over her husband's corpse, Andur's Force ghost appeared and directed Nomi to take up his lightsaber and defend herself from the thugs. Nomi did as she was told, and struck down the thugs with her fallen husband's weapon. Soon afterward, Nomi departed the Stenness Hyperspace Terminal in the Lightside Explorer, committed to finishing the delivery of the Adegan crystals. Around the same time as the Sunrider incident, Satal and Aleema Keto, heirs to the throne of the Empress Teta system, visited the station on their ship, the Krath Enchanter. The Ketos were en route to the Galactic Republic capital of Coruscant, and stopped by to refuel. As the ship had no cargo, it was cleared to land at Docking Bay Four. Many travelers passed through the Stenness Hyperspace Terminal, a good amount of them being criminals on their way to stealing mining rights from the Nessies. As such, many traders and merchants were present on the spaceport, hoping to do business with passersby. Local crime lord Bogga the Hutt maintained a presence on the Stenness Hyperspace Terminal, along with several of his enforcers. thumb|right|250px|The Lightside Explorer flies to the Stenness Hyperspace Terminal. The Stenness Hyperspace Terminal had a thousand levels; three of them with docking bays, four had food troughs, and nine hundred forty-seven featured brothels. The space station's docking bays, such as Docking Bay Four, where Satal Keto landed in the Krath Enchanter, were all numbered. There was a room where Bogga the Hutt and his gang stayed while on the terminal, along with a room that contained monitoring equipment that Bogga's enforcers used to track incoming ships and to discern which ones they should hijack. However, the monitoring station was located on the other side of the station from some of the docking bays, such as Docking Bay Six, discouraging Bogga's thugs from hijacking vessels in that area. The station's food courts were bustling and full of sentient beings, and fountains could be found nearby. The Stenness Hyperspace Terminal first appeared, albeit unidentified, in the third issue of the Tales of the Jedi comic book series, which was written by Tom Veitch, illustrated by Janine Johnston, and published by Dark Horse Comics on December 21, 1993. It was first identified as the Stenness Hyperspace Terminal in Tales of the Jedi fourth issue&mdash;also written by Veitch and released on January 18, 1994&mdash;and identified as the Stenness Spaceport in the 1995 Tales of the Jedi audio drama adaptation, based on the comics written by Veitch and adapted by John Whitman. *Tales of the Jedi audio drama *Tales of the Jedi 3 *Tales of the Jedi 4 *The Essential Guide to Characters *Tales of the Jedi Companion *Star Wars Encyclopedia *A Guide to the Star Wars Universe, Third Edition, Revised and Expanded *Star Wars: The Comics Companion Category:Airon sector locations Category:Space stations in the Inner Rim Category:Space stations in the Slice