14913
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Cyimarra
Cyimarra
6188

}} Cyimarra was a terrestrial planet located in the Mid Rim's Senex sector. The homeworld of the the aristocratic House Araba, its surface featured cities interspersed among woodlands and mountains as well as a sea. Cyimarra was famous for the Crystal Spires, a series of ancient towers of uniform height that were evenly spaced across the planet's surface. By 0 ABY, the planets Corellia and Corulag sent delegations to Cyimarra, and it was speculated that they would present a recreation of the Crystal Spires on the planet Coruscant during the festivities of that year's New Year Fete Week. Cyimarra was a planet located in the Cyimarra system of the Senex sector, a part of the Senex-Juvex region in the Western Reaches portion of the Mid Rim. The planet lay between the Mussubir and Veron systems on the Senex-Juvex Loop hyperlane, and another hyperspace route linked it to the Skartis system. Cyimarra was a quiet, terrestrial world whose surface featured woodlands, towering mountains, icy crags, and a sea at least several kilometers in depth. At some point by 0 ABY,The in-universe news report mentioning Cyimarra in is set on the date 36:F1:1, which corresponds to 0 ABY, per the reasoning here. the Core Worlds planets Corellia and Corulag both sent delegations to Cyimarra. During the following season, Corellia and Corulag were co-hosting the annual Imperial Fair displays of the New Year Fete Week on Coruscant, the capital planet of the Galactic Empire located in the Core Worlds. A day before the unveiling of the secret Grand Display, many prognosticators predicted that Corellia and Corulag would present a recreation of the Crystal Spires of Cyimarra, a hypothesis which was mentioned on the date 36:F1:1 in a news report by the Coruscant Daily Newsfeed. Cyimarra was the homeworld of the aristocratic House Araba. Although Cyimarra had graceful cities interspersed among its various forms of terrain, the feature the planet was famous for was the Crystal Spires. A series of unimaginably ancient, glittering towers of uniform height that girdled the planet, the Crystal Spires were placed across the world in such a way that the distance between any two neighboring structures was exactly the same&mdash;despite some of the towers being located atop high crags and others being submerged deep underwater. Cyimarra was first mentioned in the "Galaxywide NewsNets" feature of West End Games' Star Wars Adventure Journal 5, which was published in February 1995. The feature was authored by Paul Sudlow. The 2009 reference book The Essential Atlas placed the planet in grid square L-17. *The Essential Atlas Category:Locations along the Senex-Juvex Loop Category:Planets in the Mid Rim Category:Planets in the Western Reaches Category:Senex sector locations Category:Terrestrial planets