15009
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Wraid
Wraid
3681

|language= }} Wraids were large reptilian creatures found on many desert planets around the galaxy, including Tatooine, Ruhnuk, and Korriban. thumb|left|180px|A Tatooine wraid. Wraids were pinkish-red in color and had very powerful front legs, enabling them to move quickly when agitated by means of long, bounding strides. They had large claws at the end of their feet and sharp teeth, making them dangerous to the unwary. They also had two small back legs.Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic Wraids were often seen in clusters from two to six members. Generally, they would not harm passersby unless provoked, at which point their danger became immediately apparent. A wraid could swiftly cover large distances in a bounding sprint. Despite their ferocious appearance and short temper, they were a popular quarry of less-experienced big game sport hunters from around the galaxy as their massive forelegs left easily recognizable tracks. When the settlement of Anchorhead was founded, hunting wraids developed into a marketable trade with the opening of hunting lodges and salespeople dealing in wraid skull plates purchased from hunters. Their skull plates were rumored to have medical uses, but the market for them was very specific. Wraidskin could be used to make armor such as Cerean wraidskin chestguards, Huttese wraidskin chestguards, Echani wraidskin chestguard, and Huttese wraidskin wristguards.Star Wars: The Old Republic *Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic *Star Wars: The Old Republic *Star Wars: The Old Republic: Rise of the Hutt Cartel *Star Wars: The Old Republic: Galactic Strongholds *Star Wars: The Old Republic: Knights of the Fallen Empire *Star Wars: The Old Republic: Knights of the Eternal Throne *Star Wars: The Old Republic: Onslaught *Star Wars: The Old Republic: Legacy of the Sith *Fate of the Jedi: Ascension *Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic: Prima's Official Strategy Guide *Star Wars: The Old Republic Explorer's Guide Category:Carnivorous creatures Category:Creatures of Korriban Category:Creatures of Tatooine Category:Desert creatures Category:Herd and pack creatures Category:Non-sentient species Category:Reptiles Category:Subterranean creatures