15506
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Aristocracy
Aristocracy
7809

is set on the date "13:2:28," which corresponds to 23 BBY per the reasoning here, and it establishes that the Virgillian Civil War&mdash;which, according to The Truce at Bakura Sourcebook, was fought between the Virgillian Free Alignment and the Aristocracy that ruled over the Virgillia system&mdash;began two years prior, thereby placing it in 25 BBY. |fragmented= |reorganized= |dissolved= |restored= |affiliation=Galactic Empire The Truce at Bakura Sourcebook establishes that the Aristocracy was aligned with the Galactic Empire, the foundation of which The Essential Guide to Warfare places in 19 BBY. }} The Aristocracy was the autocratic government of the Outer Rim Territories' Virgillia system. From 25 BBY until 4 ABY, it was engaged in a civil war against the Virgillian Free Alignment. During that conflict, the Aristocracy controlled all blaster technology in the star system, restricting the Free Alignment's access to weaponry. The Aristocracy eventually lost the war, and the Virgillian Council was created to govern the system instead. The Aristocracy ruled the Virgillia system, which was located in the Koradin sector of the Outer Rim Territories. The government was an autocracy made up of Virgillian nobility. As the Aristocracy was aligned with the Galactic Empire, it had access to Imperial capital warships, although once the Empire pulled out of the system after the intensification of the Galactic Civil War, the Virgillian government was left with ships that were outdated and unable to defeat the forces of the Virgillian Free Alignment. thumb|left|300px|The Aristocracy governed the Outer Rim Territories' Virgillia system. At some point by 25 BBY, the Aristocracy gained power over the Virgillia system, and in that year, the Virgillian Civil War broke out between it and the Virgillian Free Alignment. Two years later, a Jedi diplomatic envoy consisting of Jedi Masters Everen Ettene and Ludwin Katarkus, along with their respective Padawans, Halagad Ventor and Danyawarra, was sent to Virgillia 7,SkyeWalkers: A Clone Wars Story a small colony world in the system, to negotiate peace. They were attacked upon arrival, and Ettene and Katarkus were killed. In the wake of the Galactic Republic's fall in 19 BBY,The Essential Guide to Warfare the Aristocracy aligned itself with the Galactic Empire, the Republic's successor. Ships of the Imperial Navy, including the Victory-class Star Destroyer Stormwind under the command of Captain Jarroth, patrolled the system, searching for Free Alignment activity. After the outbreak of the Galactic Civil War, the Rebel Alliance began assisting the Free Alignment, and the Imperial Navy also began to search for any Alliance presence in the system. During the Virgillian Civil War, the Aristocracy controlled all blaster technology in the Virgillia system, forcing the Free Alignment to rely only on primitive weaponry, such as flintlocks, and kept the Free Alignment confined to the system's colony worlds. As the Galactic Civil War intensified, the Empire retreated from the system, which greatly hindered the Aristocracy's ability to fight. After the Imperial withdrawal, the Free Alignment won enough battles that it was able to force the Aristocracy to agree to a truce shortly before the Battle of Endor in 4 ABY. After the establishment of the truce, the Virgillian Council was created to govern the system. The parents of Rannd Delckis, who was educated at an Imperial Academy and joined the Imperial Navy as an ensign, were high-ranking nobles who were members of the Aristocracy. Delckis eventually defected to the Free Alignment. The Aristocracy was first mentioned in The Truce at Bakura Sourcebook, a roleplaying guide published in 1996 by West End Games for Star Wars: The Roleplaying Game. The book was written by Kathy Tyers and Eric S. Trautmann. *The Truce at Bakura Sourcebook Category:Galactic Empire-aligned governments Category:Organizations of the Virgillia system Category:Outer Rim Territories governments