15690
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Tem_Chesko
Tem Chesko
5291

Tem Chesko was a Human male cargo jockey. Tem Chesko was born around 87 BBYChesko is described as 90 in Tales from Mos Eisley: Mostly Automatic, which Star Wars Omnibus: Early Victories places around 3 ABY. He eventually had a girlfriend named Maia. left|thumb|250x250px|Tem Chesko speaking with [[Lex, the last Human he saw for a long time.]] As a barely 22 year old man, Chesko took on a cargo of syntonium crystals from Cirus II, a planet in the Outer Rim TerritoriesThe Essential Atlas to Tatooine, on a hyperspace route known as The Crystal Passage. Before leaving he spoke with Lex, the mine operator on Cirus II, telling him that he should arrive back on his home planet within two weeks. Tem got onto the ship, took off and relaxed, thinking that the following week where going to be nothing but playing hologames, watching vids and taking it easy. During his journey his ship was suddenly hit by an asteroid. The collision took out the ship's hyperdrive and comlink, preventing Tem from contacting anyone. He calculated the distance to the nearest planet as ten parsecs or about 310 trilion kilometers, meaning that he wouldn't arrive there in anything under 60 years. Tem lived on the ship for 8 years, becoming more insane with each passing day. thumb|250x250px|Chesko plays [[Dejarik/Legends|Dejarik with Millie.]] Eventually he discovered a pane of glass to be broken in case of emergency. The drunken Tem threw his bottle at the glass, revealing a feminine, green MILL-247-EE industrial droid. The droid, who Tem named Millie, took care of him and the ship for several years, until she spotted a planet on the view screen. Tem decided to land there, if only for some fresh air. Soon after landing, Tem was attacked by a massive, green plant-like monster, which was quickly shot down by Millie. As more years went by, Tem reminiscing about his old girlfriend Maia, whom he surmised was likely a grandmother by now. One morning, Tem woke up and noticed that the ship had landed somewhere again. He soon found Millie in a nearby pond, looking to short-circuit herself out of jealousy for Maia. Tem talked her out of it, and as he grew old and weak she continued to take care of him. At the age of 86, laying in his bed, Tem asked Millie to kill him, and handed her his laser knife, remembering it as the hardest day of his life. Instead, Millie sacrificed herself to form artificial organs from her internal complainants to keep him alive. After several decades, Tem successfully completed his contract around 3 ABY.Star Wars Omnibus: Early Victories dates Star Wars: Tales from Mos Eisley relative to the Battle of Yavin. By that point he had been absent from the galactic scene, which saw the unfoldings of the Clone Wars and the earliest stages of the Galactic Civil War. He would later tell his story to an alien named Bezzem in the Mos Eisley cantina. To him, he revealed Millie's heart in replacement of his. Category:Cyborgs with prosthetics Category:Humans Category:Individuals with disabilities Category:Males Category:Spacers