15638
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/The_Little_Lost_Bantha_Cub
The Little Lost Bantha Cub
3096

The Little Lost Bantha Cub was a children's story favored by Jaina, Jacen, and Anakin Solo, usually presented by C-3PO. However, the children preferred the story when read by their father, Han Solo. The story is incorrect in that a young bantha would be referred to as a calf, not a cub. :After the sandstorm that drove him from home, the little lost bantha cub wandered alone. :So he walked, and he walked through the desert heat till noon, when he found a Jawa sandcrawler upon a sandy dune. : "I am lost," said the bantha cub, "please help me find my herd," but the little Jawas shook their heads and gave their final word. :So he walked, and he walked till he met a shiny droid. After being by himself so long the cub was overjoyed. : "I am lost," said the bantha cub, "please help me find my herd." :"I am not programmed to help you," said the droid, "Don't be absurd" . :The droid kept walking straight ahead, not looking left or right; the bantha cub just watched until the droid went out of sight. :So he walked, and he walked till the suns were almost setting. He had been outside so long, he couldn't help but sweating. :But then on the other side of a cliff he saw a moisture farm,with a few moisture vaporators, sticking up like arms. :"I am lost," said the bantha cub, "please help me find my herd." "Yes, you must be reunited with your family", the moisture farmer concurred. :"However, I cannot help you find your way, for I am at my moisture farm and here I must stay" . :So he slept, and he slept till it was early in the morning. He was woken by the bright suns, which rose without a single warning. The cub's adventures continue with an encounter with a Krayt dragon. : 'I will eat you,' purred the dragon, then he lunged with snapping jaws! So the bantha cub ran without the slightest pause. The cub then finds a tribe of Sand people who reunite him with his parents and his herd. *Dark Forces: Rebel Agent audio drama *Jedi Search *Dark Apprentice *The New Rebellion *Young Jedi Knights: The Lost Ones *Millennium Falcon *Star Wars Encyclopedia *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Children's books