15724
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/ZZ-4Z
ZZ-4Z
7205

|mass= |gender=Masculine programming |pronouns= |sensor= |plating= |armament= |equipment= |affiliation=*Carida Academy *Mako Spince *Han Solo }} ZZ-4Z, also known as "ZeeZee," was a JV-Z1/D butler droid produced by Serv-O-Droid, Inc. in the centuries prior to the formation of the Galactic Empire. ZZ-4Z was a JV-Z1/D butler droid manufactured by Serv-O-Droid at the height of popularity for butler droids among the wealthy of galactic society. Like all JV-Z1/Ds, ZZ-4Z was equipped with all the necessary tools and information to serve his master and cater to their whims. ZZ-4Z came into the possession of an eccentric owner who eventually willed the droid to the Carida Academy "in the hopes that the Deans may never forget the civility which all citizens must hold dear." In his new role, ZZ-4Z was programmed to act as the private secretary, majordomo, and valet for the Academy's Dean and their residence. Working mainly at the administrative annex at Cliffside, the droid served under at least seventeen successive Deans, learning all of their peculiar quirks and habits. The Academy's cadets were fond of ZZ-4Z, and they loved hearing the droid reveal each Dean's foibles as amusing and embarrassing anecdotes. Dean Horace Wyrmyr eventually took over the Academy, and he did not like droids. He released ZZ-4Z from his service and constantly sent the droid on pointless errands. The droid wanted nothing more than to serve the Dean and make life easier for him. During the early years of the Galactic Empire, ZZ-4Z met the Human cadet Mako Spince at the Academy and found himself making a new friend. Spince was very interested in Dean Wyrmyr, and ZZ-4Z had access to all of the Dean's secrets as his majordomo. ZZ-4Z supplied Spince with the control codes to the Academy's physics lab, allowing the cadet to steal a gram of antimatter which he used for his "final" prank; accidentally destroying the Mascot Moon rather than simply blasting the Academy Seal from the surface. thumb|right|250px|ZZ-4Z Spince was expelled for the prank, and once ZZ-4Z's involvement in the incident was discovered, Dean Wyrmyr angrily sent the droid to the recycling plants. The droid was rescued by Spince as a final gesture as he left the Academy. Spince took ZZ-4Z with him to the Undercity on the moon Nar Shaddaa. Now in Spince's service, ZZ-4Z attempted to serve his new master in the same way. However, the squalor and filth of his new surroundings began to push the droid past his redline limit. The droid's constant bantering grew to annoy Spince and he intentionally lost ZZ-4Z in a sabacc game. ZZ-4Z's new owner was the smuggler Han Solo. Taking the droid to his apartment, Solo's first orders to the droid were simply "I dunno, just leave it all &hellip; just like this." Obediently, ZZ-4Z followed Solo's orders and attempted to keep the residence exactly as he found it. As part of that, ZZ-4Z ended up gluing socks to the floor leading Solo to complain about the droid's attempts to stop him reusing them. Eventually, the pair worked things out and the droid bought Solo a whole new wardrobe. Eventually, Solo was forced to leave Nar Shaddaa in a hurry, with no time to tie up loose ends. In the rush, ZZ-4Z was forgotten. In Solo's absence, the droid continued to follow its programming and noted several visits by a Mr. Fett who often checked up on the apartment. ZZ-4Z was left alone for over a decade. Approximately six years after the Battle of Endor, Solo returned to Nar Shaddaa with his wife, Leia Organa Solo. Upon entering his old apartment, he encountered ZZ-4Z, still attempting to carry out his assignment, who informed him that a "Mr. Fett" was waiting to see him. Solo attempted to leave, but Fett arrived and a lightfight ensued. In the confrontation, ZZ-4Z was destroyed in the crossfire. While Solo did not return to repair the droid, his wife did comment that having such a droid around the house would not hurt, and ZZ-4Z would probably get along with C-3PO. Like all JV-Z1 droids, ZZ-4Z was well equipped with all the necessary hardware to carry out its primary function, such as carrying out domestic duties or supervising other household droids. ZZ-4Z was equipped with an infrared lintscope, a vocabulator that gave the droid a mild-mannered and subservient sounding voice, and etiquette programming. *Droids (1995) 2 *The Hutt Gambit *Rebel Dawn *Dark Empire 3 *Dark Empire 4 *Dark Empire Sourcebook *Star Wars Encyclopedia *The Essential Guide to Droids *Aurra Sing: Dawn of the Bounty Hunters *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Droids with masculine programming Category:JV-Z1/D butler droids Category:Majordomos Category:Nar Shaddaa residents