15806
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Winstel_Greelanx
Winstel Greelanx
4243

Winstel Greelanx was a Human male who served as an Admiral in the Imperial Navy. In 4 BBY, Greelanx commanded an Imperial strike force ordered by Moff Sarn Shild to devastate Nar Shaddaa, as per the orders of Palpatine that the Empire crack down on Rebel activity. Han Solo was sent by Jiliac and Jabba to offer a bribe to Greelanx on behalf of all the Hutts on Nal Hutta not to attack Nar Shaddaa. Greelanx could name his price, according to the Hutts. Rather than simply throw the battle, Greelanx gave to Solo a copy of his battle plans, allowing the smugglers to devise a reasonable defense strategy. Greelanx accepted the bribe in the form of precious gems so he could retire immediately after "invading" Nar Shaddaa. A twist occurred when Greelanx received an order through the most secure channel, the channel used only by the Emperor himself, commanding Greelanx to feign defeat and allow Nar Shaddaa to survive. Puzzled by this turn of events, Greelanx attacked Nar Shaddaa with only a half-hearted effort, much to the shock and frustration of his subordinate, Captain Soontir Fel. When the smugglers put up a surprisingly effective defense and destroyed numerous Imperial ships, Greelanx sounded the retreat and fled from Hutt Space. After the Battle of Nar Shaddaa, Solo returned to Greelanx as promised and delivered the precious gems. However, before Solo could leave, one of Greelanx's superiors arrived and was furious at the battle's outcome. Solo listened in horror from inside a closet as Greelanx suffocated at the hands of Darth Vader. Bria Tharen suspected Greelanx had been ordered to throw the battle by the Emperor so as to remove support from Moff Sarn Shild, who was becoming too power-hungry for Palpatine's liking. After Shild committed suicide, Vader was merely tying up a loose end. *The Hutt Gambit *Rebel Dawn *The Essential Chronology *A Guide to the Star Wars Universe, Third Edition, Revised and Expanded *The New Essential Guide to Characters *The New Essential Chronology *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia *The Essential Guide to Warfare *Lords of Nal Hutta Category:Humans Category:Imperial Customs officers Category:Imperial Navy admirals of the Galactic Empire Category:Males Category:Republic Navy officers