15853
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Luxa
Luxa
5424

Luxa was a Zeltron female who worked for the Bumani Exchange Corporation aboard Citadel Station over Telos IV. She was a high-ranking member who reported directly to Loppak Slusk, chief of operations for the Exchange's activities in the Telos system. When Meetra Surik's Ebon Hawk disappeared, Luxa offered her assistance in exchange for Surik's help in seizing Slusk's position; however, she betrayed and was subsequently killed by Surik. Luxa was a female Zeltron who worked as a high-ranking member of the Bumani Exchange Corporation, a branch of the Exchange criminal organization, aboard Citadel Station over Telos IV. She reported directly to the chief of operations, the Quarren crime boss Loppak Slusk, whose office was within Entertainment Module 081 Cantina. Her rival, the Human male Benok, was Slusk's chief of security. In 3951 BBY, the exiled former Jedi Meetra Surik arrived on Citadel Station with Atton Rand and Kreia and became involved in several conflicts among its residents. Surik made her way to the cantina, where she was introduced to Luxa and Benok. Later, after the party discovered the disappearance of the Ebon Hawk while collecting their possessions at the Telos Security Force's station, Luxa offered to introduce Surik and her party to Slusk. Luxa said that she found Surik to be "quite attractive," but she would only provide assistance if Surik eliminated her boss, thus allowing her to assume his position. In return, Luxa offered to assist in helping Surik find the Ebon Hawk. However, the alliance was short-lived, as Luxa betrayed Surik in an attempt to cash in on Goto's bounty on live Jedi, and was killed in the ensuing battle. Luxa was a Zeltron with pink skin and short red hair. In her interactions with Meetra Surik, she was composed, confident, and flirtatious, and she spoke with a calm and relaxed tone. She was also deceptive and manipulative in convincing Surik to "remove" her boss from power in exchange for help with finding the then-missing Ebon Hawk ship, only to betray Surik at the last minute in an attempt to claim a bounty. Luxa appeared in the video game Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic II: The Sith Lords, in which the player character is Meetra Surik. If the player sides with Jana Lorso, then Luxa will demand a test of good faith by conducting an arms deal in her stead. Surik is forced to kill the buyers when the deal goes sour. During the confrontation with Slusk, Luxa, and their respective bodyguards, the player receives a counter-offer from Slusk, who says that "all is forgiven" if Surik kills Luxa; four options then become available. The player can agree to Slusk's terms and then attack Luxa and her Gamorrean body guards, or argue for a peaceful solution to the conflict but getting attacked by Luxa. Surik can also kill Slusk as Luxa wishes, only to be betrayed by Luxa. In another option, the player may choose hostility to both and face both groups at once. Luxa will flirt with the player character regardless of their gender; Surik is canonically female.Knights of the Old Republic Campaign Guide *Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic II: The Sith Lords *Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic II: The Sith Lords: Prima Official Game Guide Category:Exchange members Category:Females Category:LGBTQIA+ individuals Category:Telosians Category:Zeltrons