16073
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Ord_Sabaok
Ord Sabaok
4918

Ord Sabaok was a Core Worlds planet. During the Pius Dea Era, it served as an Ordnance/Regional Depot outpost for the Galactic Republic. It came to be orbited by Imperial Star Destroyers by the time of the Battle of Yavin and was the home of Rebel spy Barthalemew Windsloe, who worked undercover to gather information from the Imperials while living there. Ord Sabaok was a world located in the Core Worlds' Ord Sabaok system, part of the Southern Core. Between 12,000 BBY and 11,000 BBY, a hyperlane connected Ord Sabaok to the Giju system. thumb|right|250px|Barthalamew Windsloe worked undercover on Ord Sabaok. Ord Sabaok served as an Ordnance/Regional Depot outpost for the Galactic Republic during the Pius Dea Era, a period of time that lasted between 12,000 BBY and 11,000 BBY, despite it being located outside the borders of Republic space. By the time of the Battle of Yavin, Ord Sabaok was orbited by Imperial Star Destroyers and had a number of exclusive clubs and posh casinos. The Human Rebel Alliance spy Barthalemew Windsloe, who worked undercover for the Alliance as part of the Empire, lived at Ord Sabaok among many other young Imperial officers. Windsloe was often found in Ord Sabaok's clubs surrounded by bridge officers, who giggled at his jokes and talk of his own romantic entanglements. In that relaxed atmosphere, Windsloe was able to get the officers to give up more information than they usually would, allowing him to hear news that most others were unaware of. The spy made reports to a cargo freighter linked to the Rebel Alliance that made runs to Ord Sabaok every week, ensuring that the information was relayed to Alliance Intelligence agents. Ord Sabaok was first mentioned in Cracken's Rebel Operatives, a 1994 roleplaying supplement published by West End Games for Star Wars: The Roleplaying Game. The 2009 reference book The Essential Atlas placed the Ord Sabaok system, and therefore the world itself, in grid square J-13. *Cracken's Rebel Operatives *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia *The Essential Guide to Warfare Sabaok Category:Planets in the Core Worlds Category:Planets in the Southern Core