16012
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Adas
Adas
20628

|birth=Prior to 28,000 BBY |death=c. 27,700 BBY |species=Sith |gender=Male |pronouns=He/him |height= |mass= |hair= |feathers= |eyes= |skin=Charcoal |cyber= |families=new |parents=new |partners=new |siblings=new |children=new |affiliation=Sith EmpireJedi vs. Sith: The Essential Guide to the Force |masters= |apprentices= }} Adas was King of Korriban and the Sith in a reign that lasted nearly three hundred years. He was large for his species, his skin was unusually charcoal-colored, and he was raised as a chosen being from his youth. Encasing himself in ebon armor, he wielded a massive battle-ax, and became a master of Sith sorcery. Circa 28,000 BBY, Adas united the disparate nations and tribes of Korriban in a series of bloody conflicts, eventually solidifying himself as the sole leader of his people. The Sith hailed Adas as the Sith'ari, or "Overlord." The commonly held belief was that he was invincible and that his reign would be eternal. Circa 27,700 BBY, Rakata from the Infinite Empire arrived on Korriban and taught Adas to harness the technology of holocrons. Adas created one of these devices but soon realized that the new arrivals intended to conquer Korriban. He took his battle-ax to the aliens and drove them off with his people at his side. In doing so, he lost his life. Adas's influence, however, continued for many years following his death. His holocron was later granted to the Exiles in 6900 BBY, when the reign of the first Jen'ari, or "Dark Lord" of the Sith, began. It was later lost on Ashas Ree during the Great Hyperspace War, where it was later found by fallen Jedi Knight Freedon Nadd, who used Adas's teachings to subjugate and rule Onderon. When that planet cast off the yoke of Sith oppression in 4000 BBY, the Jedi attempted to hide the holocron so that it would not fall into the wrong hands. It remained safely hidden on Kodai for nearly four thousand years but was retrieved in the years before the Clone Wars. Murder was committed several times in attempts to gain control of the holocron, and it was eventually returned to Korriban while in possession of Dark Lady of the Sith Lumiya. thumb|right|250px|Korriban, Adas's world A Sith male, Adas was born on the planet Korriban at least three thousand years before the formation of the Galactic Republic. Due to the charcoal-colored pigmentation of his skin, which was unusual for the red-skinned Sith, Adas was considered a chosen being and was raised as such during his youth. As he grew older, he grew to be substantial in size and displayed great intelligence and skill in combat. Adas was also particularly adept in the use of Sith sorcery. He encased himself in a suit of spiked, ebon armor, and was armed with an oversized, alchemically-forged battle-ax. Circa 28,000 BBY, Adas took his ax to his fellow Sith in a series of brutal conflicts, eventually uniting and consolidating the disparate nations and tribes of his homeworld.Star Wars: The Old Republic Encyclopedia In doing so, Adas became the undisputed ruler and king of Korriban. The general perception held by his people was that he would live forever, with a reign eternal, and he came to be revered as a god.Knights of the Old Republic Campaign Guide The period of his rule became known as the "Reign of the Ax"Book of Sith: Secrets from the Dark Side and over time, Adas was given the moniker of Sith'ari, meaning "Lord" or "Overlord." He was three hundred years old when Rakatan soldiers of the Infinite Empire moved against Korriban. At first, the aliens taught King Adas how to record his essence into a device called a "holocron," in an attempt to lull the Sith ruler into their confidence. Putting his newfound knowledge to use, Adas created his own holocron, although the device became more a testament to his accomplishments than a teaching device. Eventually, though, the Rakata were more blatant in their actions and attempted to conquer the Sith, using their Force-based technology.The Essential Atlas Adas's forces gathered in a large army on the fields of Korriban to face the invading Rakata, who landed their ships as the king's soldiers chanted their leader's name. The Sith were more than able to defend themselves, and Adas, refusing to tolerate their actions even in his advanced age, led his people in the vehement defense of Korriban. He participated in the punitive action, driving back the invaders with his massive ax and killing dozens of Rakatan warriors. In the process, he captured the Rakatan starships and turned them against the invaders. Adas's forces pushed on from Korriban, and reached Ziost, Malachor V, and Tund. However, in securing what he hoped would be a future of freedom for his people, Adas perished. Around this time, a Sith named Yshaar Kael gained the title of "Betrayer of Adas" before being captured by the Rakata, and Raspir, Adas's court sorcerer, was also captured and placed in a mind prison.The Unknown Regions return.|Sorzus Syn, on the prophecy of the Sith'ari|}} Without the stabilizing influence of Adas as king, Korriban once again devolved into a state of constant civil war, with many claiming the title of Sith'ari. Some of the Sith prophesied that a perfect being would one day arise and assume the position of Sith'ari, although a number of the Kissai priests believed that Adas was the only true Sith'ari and that the prophecy had begun and ended with him. As a result of the internal strife, the Sith capital was relocated to Ziost. Details of Adas's exploits were later recorded by the Sith in the Holocron of King Nakgru. At some point, a mural depicting him was painted on the Mongrel Altar, a monument situated on Korriban. Stability eventually returned to the worlds of the Sith, and a new Sith Empire was formed, which followed Adas's example of how the Sith could gain power from the leadership of a strong individual. Almost twenty-one thousand years after his death, a group of Dark Jedi known as the Exiles landed on Korriban and subjugated the Sith people with their mastery of the Force, and their superior technology, such as lightsabers. Initially hailed as Jen'jidai, the Exiles managed to destroy Adas's eventual successor of that period, and were then understood by the Sith people to be gods, more powerful than Adas had ever been. Ajunta Pall, the leader of the Exiles, was declared as the blood heir to Adas, and the Dark Jedi Sorzus Syn studied the accounts of Adas's reign that were detailed in the Nakgru Holocron. At the time of his death, Adas had given his holocron to his second in command, or "Shadow Hand." The device had been handed down through the generations and was eventually given to the newcomers, who were then hailed as Sith Lords. thumb|left|170px|Freedon Nadd, who used Adas's teachings to control Onderon The Sith Empire thrived for many years, until the Great Hyperspace War of 5000 BBY, where it was all but destroyed by the Galactic Republic. During that conflict, Adas's holocron was lost on Ashas Ree by the Sith Lord Garu. In 4400 BBY, it was discovered by the fallen Jedi Freedon Nadd. With the power of Adas's teachings at his disposal, Nadd conquered and subjugated the planet Onderon. During the Beast Wars, the holocron fell into the hands of Queen Amanoa, wife of King Ommin, who was descended from Nadd. She too studied the ancient Sith's teachings and eventually passed the device on to her apprentice Novar. Novar, in turn, used the holocron to instruct further Onderonian Sith acolytes. During her Jedi training with Jedi Master Thon, Nomi Sunrider learned from an ancient holocron which had been lent to Thon by Master Arca Jeth; the gatekeeper of the holocron was a Neti Master Ood Bnar. Master Bnar introduced Nomi Sunrider to the history of the Jedi's age-old fight against the dark side, including the reign of King Adas.Tales of the Jedi 5 The dictates of the long-dead Sith king kept the planet in an age of darkness until the Sith hold on the planet was broken by the Jedi during the Second Battle of Onderon. The Jedi recovered the device and buried it under tons of water on Kodai, in the hopes that no one else would fall under Adas's influence. During the New Sith Wars, Brotherhood of Darkness member Seviss Vaa researched the worlds of the Sith Empire and covered Adas's reign in his writings. His research was later collected by Palpatine, also known as Darth Sidious, in the Telos Holocron, the contents of which were later published by Jedi Master Tionne Solusar in 40 ABY. thumb|right|170px|Warb Null's armor filled Cillmam'n with visions of ancient Sith history, including a vision of King Adas cutting down Rakatan warriors. In 29 BBY, Norval, a student of Sith historian Murk Lundi, recovered the holocron. The device was subsequently confiscated by Jedi Knight Obi-Wan Kenobi and turned over to the Jedi Council. The Council, in turn, entrusted Adas's holocron to the library of House Pelagia in the Tapani sector. In 19 BBY, a Jedi ExplorCorps member Telloti Cillmam'n found the armor of the Dark Jedi Warb Null on Nicht Ka, an ammonia-washed world located on the border of the ancient Sith Empire. After donning the armor, Cillmam'n was flooded with visions of the ancient Sith history, including the Rakatan invasion of Korriban, where he saw King Adas's soldiers chanting their leader's name and Adas cutting down dozens of Rakatan warriors with his battle-ax. Darth Sidious dispatched Carnor Jax's father, a Sun Guard, to retrieve Adas's holocron, but the man failed and, as a result, was killed by the Sith Lord. During the Great Jedi Purge that began in 19 BBY, Mecrosa Order agent Sir Nevil Tritum infiltrated the House Pelagia library. Killing three Jedi that guarded the device, he brought it back to his superiors. It eventually fell into the possession of the Dark Lady Lumiya, who returned it to Korriban, where she resided for some time. Adas was both a monarch and a god to his people, and during the end of his reign, Adas was given the title of Sith'ari&mdash;the perfect being, bestowed upon him by the Force according to legend. A fierce combatant and a respected, though inflexible, ruler, Adas was still feared millennia after his death. He preyed on the timid, enslaved those he considered foolish, executed idealists, and was highly derisive of the weak; his essence, recorded in a holocron, would refuse to pass on its teachings to anyone it did not deem worthy. Though his holocron was generally reluctant to pass on instruction, it did have the extraordinary power to affect the minds of people in its presence when activated. Though initiates such as Novar were granted access to Adas's teachings, the Sith king's essence would threaten anyone who dared to fail him. When challenged by rival warriors, Adas would kill them and drink their bloodsoup, to honor their demise. During combat, he wielded a pair of battle-axes, carrying one in each hand. thumb|right|300px|Adas's first appearance, in a flashback Adas, in holocron form, first appeared in a brief vignette featured in the 1996 sourcebook Tales of the Jedi Companion, written by George R. Strayton. His role and biography were later expanded in 2006's Evil Never Dies: The Sith Dynasties, written by Abel G. Peña. That article identified Adas as a member of the Sith species and said he had interacted with the Rakata introduced in the 2003 video game Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic. Adas's character was later used and expounded upon in 2007's Jedi vs. Sith: The Essential Guide to the Force by Ryder Windham. In 2012, Adas featured in the publication Book of Sith: Secrets from the Dark Side by Daniel Wallace, which expanded upon the details of Adas's legacy. The book included an image of Adas, which was similar to that of a previously unidentified darksider who had appeared in the 1994 comic Tales of the Jedi 5, in a flashback when the holocron gatekeeper Ood Bnar told the prospective Jedi Nomi Sunrider about the perils of the dark side, thus retconning the comic as Adas's first appearance. In the Eternity Vault Operation, a group mission in the BioWare video game Star Wars: The Old Republic, a Sith Marauder named Yshaar Kael appears with the title "Betrayer of Adas," though it is unknown what role Kael played in Adas's death. The 2014 article Authors of the Expanded Universe: More Tales of the Jedi, published in Star Wars Insider 151, described the dark-side user in Tales of the Jedi 5 as "an ancient Jedi who turned to the dark side." *Tales of the Jedi 5 *Star Wars: The Old Republic *Tales of the Jedi Companion *Star Wars: Panel to Panel Volume 2: Expanding the Universe *Jedi vs. Sith: The Essential Guide to the Force *Knights of the Old Republic Campaign Guide *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia *The Essential Atlas *The Unknown Regions *Book of Sith: Secrets from the Dark Side *Star Wars: The Old Republic Encyclopedia *Star Wars: Force and Destiny Core Rulebook }} Category:Individuals with he/him pronouns Category:Males Category:Sith kings Category:Sith Masters Category:Sith sorcerers Category:Sith species