16065
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Belshar_Othacuu
Belshar Othacuu
5357

Belshar Othacuu was a Mid Rim astronomical object located in the Belshar sector. During the Galactic Civil War, a covert installation of the Galactic Empire's Commission for the Preservation of the New Order was established there, with a convoy of military supplies scheduled to be transported to the facility. Between 12 ABY and 13 ABY, Belshar Othacuu was part of the New Republic. Belshar Othacuu was a terrestrial celestial body situated in the Belshar Othacuu system, a part of the Belshar sector in the New Territories portion of the Mid Rim. It lay on the Namadii Corridor hyperlane, which connected it to the Ord Varee system as well as the Glee Anselm system of the neighboring Jalor sector. thumb|right|300px|A covert installation of the Commission for the Preservation of the New Order (emblem pictured) was established on Belshar Othacuu. During the Galactic Civil War, at one point by the time shortly after the Battle of Yavin, a new covert installation of the Commission for the Preservation of the New Order of the Galactic Empire was established on Belshar Othacuu. The Core Worlds&ndash;based Rebel Alliance deep-cover penetration agent Bonic Tarracus, known by his codename "Corewatch," eventually learned of a convoy of military supplies that was being assembled in preparation for transportation to the facility, a fact that Tarracus relayed to Alliance High Command. Alliance General Airen Cracken later noted Corewatch's report on the convoy headed to Belshar Othacuu in an entry dedicated to the agent that was part of a datafile detailing various Rebel operatives. Belshar Othacuu was part of the New Republic between 12 ABY and 13 ABY. Belshar Othacuu was created by Chuck Truett and was introduced in Cracken's Rebel Operatives, a 1994 West End Games sourcebook published for use with Star Wars: The Roleplaying Game. The 2009 reference book The Essential Atlas placed the Belshar Othacuu system, and therefore the celestial body, in grid square J-7. *Cracken's Rebel Operatives *The Essential Guide to Warfare Category:Astronomical objects in the Mid Rim Category:Astronomical objects in the New Territories Category:Belshar sector locations Category:Locations along the Namadii Corridor Category:New Republic astronomical objects Category:Terrestrial astronomical objects