16084
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Canastra_IV
Canastra IV
5445

Canastra IV was a Core Worlds celestial body with coastal oceans on its surface. It was home to the amphibian herbivore known as the two-headed tortuce. On Canastra IV, several varieties of the creature existed that led different lifestyles. By the time of the Galactic Empire, the two-headed tortuce was hunted as a gourmet food source due to being seen as a delicacy throughout the Core Worlds. Canastra IV was a terrestrial celestial body situated in the Canastra system of the Core Worlds. It featured coastal oceans, with the local flora including both land and underwater plants. The Canastran coastal oceans were inhabited by amphibian creatures, the principal form of which was the two-headed tortuce&mdash;a relatively unknown herbivorous creature with no known natural predators. Several types of two-headed tortuces existed on Canastra IV, including deep-diving sea dwellers that fed on underwater plants as well as land dwellers, who, after exhausting a given region's supply of roots and other edible plants, returned to the sea. By the time of the reign of the Galactic Empire, the two-headed tortuce was one of the few multi-brained creatures to survive in the Core Worlds. By the time of the Galactic Empire's existence, Canastra IV's two-headed tortuces were seen as a culinary delicacy throughout the Core Worlds, and as a result, each year thousands of the creatures were hunted down and exported throughout the galaxy, with efforts to ban such practices being ineffective. The tortuces' homeworld was mentioned in an entry of a holobrochure for the Tagge Holographic Museum of the planet Chandrila dedicated to the creature. Canastra IV was mentioned in the 1994 sourcebook Creatures of the Galaxy, published by West End Games for Star Wars: The Roleplaying Game. The section of the book mentioning the celestial body was authored by Rick D. Stuart, with Canastra IV being depicted in an illustration by Dan Schaefer. The 2009 reference book The Essential Atlas placed the Canastra system, and therefore Canastra IV, in grid square K-10. *Creatures of the Galaxy Category:Astronomical objects in the Core Worlds Category:Astronomical objects in the Negs Category:Terrestrial astronomical objects