16155
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Reopi
Reopi
5150

Reopi was a Core Worlds desert world. It featured the vast equatorial area known as the Red Reopi Deserts. There, magus creatures fed on insects and reptiles and was in turn preyed upon by the Reopi sand crushers. Under strict government regulation, private Reopi businesses hunted magus for their hides, which were prized off-world. Reopi was a desert world located in the Reopi system. It was a part of the Arrowhead, or the Slice portion of the Core Worlds. Reopi was also situated within the region known as the Inner Sphere. It was the site of the Red Reopi Deserts, which was a vast area of equatorial sandy deserts. The area was home to type of low-growing plant. The Red Reopi Deserts' wildlife included an abundance of insects, among which was at least one winged form, as well as small reptiles that inhabited desert oases. The burrowing creature known as the magus fed on the local insects and reptiles, and it in turn was preyed upon by the larger carnivore known as the Reopi sand crusher. During the reign of the Galactic Empire, Reopi was mentioned in an entry of a holobrochure for the Tagge Holographic Museum of the planet Chandrila dedicated to the magus. Reopi's native magus creature had a hide the toughness and durability of which was prized off-world, and, as a result, it was one of the few creatures in the Inner Sphere that were still hunted for their commercial value. However, strict government quota regulations protected the magus population, and the harvesting of their hides was restricted solely to private Reopi businesses. Magus hunters commonly utilized the presence of reptiles at the oases of the world's deserts as a lure for the creatures. Reopi was mentioned in the 1994 sourcebook Creatures of the Galaxy, published by West End Games for Star Wars: The Roleplaying Game. The section of the book mentioning the celestial body was authored by Rick D. Stuart, with Reopi being depicted in an illustration by Mike Vilardi. The 2009 reference book The Essential Atlas placed the Reopi system, and therefore the world itself, in grid square M-10. *Creatures of the Galaxy Category:Desert planets Category:Planets in the Arrowhead Category:Planets in the Core Worlds