16738
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Rampa_III
Rampa III
5540

Rampa III, commonly known as Rampa, was a heavily industrialized planet in the Corporate Sector, which had a landscape so barren and polluted that drinkable water was an extremely precious resource. The need for water set up a thriving smuggling route known as the Rampa Rapids between Rampa III and nearby R'alla, which had an abundance of clear, refreshing water. Located in the Outer Rim Corporate Sector, Rampa III was located a short jump off the Solenbaran Merchant Route, connected to R'alla by a route called the Rampa Rapids. By the era of the Galactic Civil War, Rampa III was arid and polluted, and was constantly riddled by drought. As of the Imperial Period, Rampa III had become heavily industrialized, dotted with Corporate Sector Authority labor camps and factories. The Authority made it a practice to send prisoners and the sector's least fortunate to Rampa III, and the planet's landscape had become extremely polluted, with very little drinkable water. As such, a bustling smuggling trade sprung up between Rampa III and nearby R'alla, which was well-known for its sweet, clear water. That run, known as the Rampa Rapids, was heavily patrolled by both Authority gunships and the native Rampa Skywatch,Han Solo's Revenge and was known for being highly perilous. Many smugglers cut their teeth running water to Rampa III, including a young Han Solo, who ran the Rampa Rapids during his early career.Han Solo and the Corporate Sector Sourcebook Gunrunner Tiv "Poke" Pocarno was less successful than Solo, as the Captain of the Broken 'Spanner, in a futile effort to pay back a sizable debt to Reuss VIII crime lord Torel Vorne, botched a smuggling run to Rampa III and died penniless.Stock Ships C-3PX once completed a hit on Rampa III following a hit on Bonadan.The New Essential Guide to Droids Rampa was first mentioned in Han Solo's Revenge, a novel written by Brian Daley and released in 1979. The 2009 reference book The Essential Atlas later identified the planet as Rampa III. Additionally, it created the Rampa Minor system to differentiate Rampa 1 and Rampa 2 from Rampa III, establishing that they are not in the same system. *Han Solo's Revenge *Han Solo and the Lost Legacy *The New Jedi Order: Agents of Chaos I: Hero's Trial *A Guide to the Star Wars Universe *Han Solo and the Corporate Sector Sourcebook *A Guide to the Star Wars Universe, Second Edition, Revised and Expanded *Platt's Starport Guide *The Essential Guide to Characters *Cynabar's Fantastic Technology: Droids *Stock Ships *Star Wars Encyclopedia *The New Essential Guide to Droids *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia *The Essential Atlas Category:Corporate Sector Authority planets Category:Corporate Sector locations Category:Factory worlds Category:Locations along the Rampa Rapids Category:Planets in the Outer Rim Territories Category:Prison planets Category:Terrestrial planets