16971
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Unidentified_star_(Dilonexa_system)
Unidentified star (Dilonexa system)
4893

A giant blue-white star was situated in the Dilonexa system, a part of the Outer Rim Territories' Centrality sector. Twenty-two radiation-seared planets and seventeen ice-bound worlds orbited the star as well as the temperate agriworld Dilonexa XXIII, which was the only world in the system capable of supporting life. thumb|right|300px|The star was located in the Dilonexa system. A gigantic blue-white star that was only identified by a catalog number was located in the Dilonexa system, a part of the Centrality sector in the Slice portion of the Outer Rim Territories. It was situated on the Falko Run hyperlane, which linked it to the Ringneldia and Ua systems. On the twenty-two inner planets of the Dilonexa system, the radiation from system's star was so intense that a Human's unprotected skin would become tanned in a span of microseconds. Conversely, the outer seventeen planets were frozen ice worlds. Between those two groups of planets, however, lay Dilonexa XXIII, a large, temperateThe Essential Guide to Droids agriworld which was the only world in the system that could support life. Dilonexa XXIII was home to colonists known as Dilonexicans. In the view of the earliest Dilonexicans, the bountiful natural resources of the planet more than outweighed the extreme conditions of the rest of the star system. When the Millennium Falcon, the light freighter of the interstellar trader Lando Calrissian, approached Dilonexa XXIII at some point between 3 BBY and 2 BBY,The Essential Reader's Companion dates the events of The Lando Calrissian Adventures novel trilogy, including Lando Calrissian and the Flamewind of Oseon, between 3 BBY and 2 BBY. Calrissian did not bother asking his copilot, the droid Vuffi Raa, about the catalog number of the planet's sun, which he had forgotten. The star of the Dilonexa system was first mentioned in Lando Calrissian and the Flamewind of Oseon, the 1983 second entry in The Lando Calrissian Adventures trilogy of novels by L. Neil Smith. The 2009 reference book The Essential Atlas placed the system, and therefore the star, in grid square U-8. *Lando Calrissian and the Flamewind of Oseon *Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Dilonexa system locations Category:Giant stars Category:Stars in the Outer Rim Territories Category:Stars in the Slice