17990
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Tol_Skorr
Tol Skorr
14884

|apprentices= }} Tol Skorr was a male Human Jedi Knight who served the Jedi Order and the Galactic Republic in its final decades. Taking the rank of General within the Grand Army of the Republic during the Clone Wars, Skorr was seduced to the dark side of the Force early in the conflict and he joined the Confederacy of Independent Systems, becoming one of Count Dooku's Dark Acolytes. Discovered to be Force-sensitive at an early age, Tol Skorr was delivered to the Coruscant Jedi Temple for training in the ways of the Force by the Jedi Order. Passing through the Temple's academy, Skorr went on to complete formal training when he succeeded in his Trials of Knighthood and was elevated to the rank of Jedi Knight by the Jedi High Council. Beginning his independent studies, Skorr was sent on many missions by the High Council, serving the cause of peace and justice as he was able. On one such assignment, Jedi Skorr was pitted against a ruthless band of pirates, eventually getting shot down over Korriban. His starfighter crashed on the planet surface, and the Jedi encountered one of the dreaded Tuk'ata beasts. Skorr was wounded in the ensuing fray, but before the ferocious animal could kill him, Jedi Master Dooku arrived, driving away the Tuk'ata and rescuing Skorr. Humbled, Skorr pledged his life to the elder Jedi. When the Clone Wars erupted between the Republic and the Confederacy of Independent Systems in 22 BBY, Jedi Skorr reported to Coruscant where he received the rank of General within the newly created Grand Army of the Republic. However, once it became known that former Jedi Dooku, now a Count of Serenno, headed the Separatist movement, Skorr's unquestioning loyalty to the man who saved his life drew him away from the Galactic Republic and Jedi Order. Seduced to the dark side of the Force by Dooku, who was in fact the elusive Dark Lord of the Sith Darth Tyranus, Skorr abandoned the Jedi Order and his role in the war, becoming one of Dooku's Jedi dissidents. Constructing a red-bladed lightsaber, Skorr's new allegiance was made known to the High Council. Competing with Sey as they vied for Dooku's favor, the two joined together to attack potential rival Quinlan Vos, a seemingly turncoat Jedi who wished to join Dooku's army. Despite their efforts, Master Vos outmaneuvered and dispatched the two Acolytes, and an unfazed Sora Bulq escorted the triumphant Vos into the Count's chambers. Shortly after Vos was admitted into Dooku's retinue of Dark Acolytes, the group traveled to Tibrin to overthrow the pro-Republic dictator and take the planet for the Confederacy. Standing by Dooku's side, Skorr watched in silence as the planet's ruler, Suribran Tu, was decapitated by the Sith Lord's lightsaber. thumb|left|200px|Skorr fights against the Kiffu Guardians alongside Count Dooku. Soon thereafter, the group ventured to Kiffu where Dooku confronted Sheyf Tinté Vos within her palace. When Dooku announced his intentions to depose the Sheyf, she ordered her guards to capture or kill the assassins. Skorr engaged the Guardians along with the others, slaying them one by one as they attacked in force. Contending with Sey to reach the Sheyf first, Vos leaped over both and abducted the old ruler. Slaying Sey on his way out of the chamber, Vos fled with his captive, and Dooku ordered Skorr to remain to kill the rest of the Guardians while he found Vos. Quickly departing Kiffu once the Sheyf was murdered, Dooku sent Skorr and Vos on a mission to Korriban to fuel the competition between the two. Ordered to retrieve the Holocron of Heresies, the ancient holocron of Darth Andeddu, the pair set out to scour the tombs of the ancient Sith Lords. Lying in wait as Vos retrieved the artifact, Skorr challenged the Kiffar for possession of the ancient data crystal. Dueling with Vos, Skorr was diverted away from their contest when he came face-to-face once more with the Tuk'ata that had scarred his face when he first crashed on Korriban. Skorr managed to evade the feral creature and, escaping with Vos, Skorr fell short as he leaped for Dooku's shuttle; however the Count rescued him with the Force. Journeying to Dooku's base of operations on Bakura and then to Coruscant, Skorr waited with Dooku in The Works district as Vos assassinated Senator Viento on behalf of the Confederacy. After receiving Vos' report, Dooku and Skorr departed. thumb|right|200px|Skorr once again encounters the Tuk'ata on Korriban. Fourteen months later, Dooku was displeased with Vos' repeated failures and assigned Skorr to partner with Sith assassin Asajj Ventress to kill the Kiffar Dark Acolyte. Tracking Vos, the pair managed to trap him aboard the ruined Intergalactic Zoological Society's ship, the Titavian IV and pitted him against several deadly droids. When Vos managed to activate his beacon transceiver, Master Obi-Wan Kenobi located the ship and helped Vos counter the droids. When Ventress' Morp droids led the two Jedi into Skorr's trap, the Nightsister attacked Kenobi while Skorr trounced an exhausted Vos in combat. Distracted by a rancor released by Kenobi, the Jedi were able to flee to the hangar deck where Vos boarded the Skorp-Ion. As Ventress and Kenobi fought, Skorr piloted a starfighter to chase Vos but was ultimately gunned down inside the hangar. Surviving the wreck, Ventress and Skorr regrouped as the Jedi escaped. When General Grievous answered the Dark Jedi's distress beacon, it became clear that an accounting would have to be made to Count Dooku for their apparent failure. While Ventress was able to defy Grievous' orders and continue her hunt of Kenobi and Vos, Skorr was not so fortunate, accompanying the cyborg so as to report to Dooku.Star Wars: Republic: Dreadnaughts of Rendili thumb|left|180px|Tol Skorr is killed by Quinlan Vos. Near the end of the war, Skorr accompanied Dooku to the world of Saleucami to oversee the development of a Morgukai Shadow Army by the Anzat Rath Kelkko. As the Confederacy began to lay siege to the planet, Skorr went into the seedy regions of the world to meet with Khaleen Hentz, Vos' lover. Threatening her by strangling her with the Force briefly, Skorr attempted to create a schism between Hentz and Vos, in order to cause his long time rival to make mistakes. Leading Morgukai in battle against the Republic, Skorr encountered Vos on the battlefield and engaged him, leading him deep into a cave. Once out of sight from the battling armies, the two disengaged each other and met with Dooku and Bulq in the underground labs of the Anzati. While Dooku assigned Vos to hunt down Jedi Master Tholme who had successfully sabotaged parts of the Morgukai project, Skorr continued his role as leader of the armies on the surface. Operating under the call name Red Tide, Skorr was instrumental in giving the all clear to Master Bulq to continue with his plan to assassinate Jedi Master Oppo Rancisis, leader of the Republic's war effort on the planet. As Bulq murdered Rancisis, Skorr engaged Jedi K'Kruhk, Sian Jeisel, and A'Sharad Hett in battle to arouse suspicion that Vos had killed the Thisspiasian Jedi Master.Star Wars: Republic: Siege of Saleucami As the battle continued, Vos reported to Dooku the death of Tholme, which Vos believed he had caused. Dooku decided to test Vos' allegiance once more by asking him to kill Khaleen Hentz, who Skorr had recovered from the surface and dragged down into the underground facility. Refusing to kill the woman, Vos disavowed any feigned allegiance to Dooku and attacked Bulq, Skorr, and the Morgukai guards. Joined by Tholme, who indeed had survived the early duel with Vos, the Kiffar Jedi engaged Skorr one-on-one and battled each other into a chamber overlooking a lava pit. As Skorr taunted Vos and his belief in the so-called "Second Sith," a being Skorr claimed Dooku made up to control Vos, the Jedi became more and more enraged, knocking the lightsaber out of Skorr's hand. As Skorr stood defeated on the cliff reaching over the lava pit, Vos shoved the Dark Acolyte over the edge, where he plummeted to his death. While trained as a Jedi, Tol Skorr was quick to forsake his oaths to the Jedi Order when Count Dooku rescued him from Korriban early during the Clone Wars. Displaying an extreme sense of loyalty to the Count, Skorr was willing to unquestionably follow the Sith Lord's orders without hesitation. Constantly plying for Dooku's affection, Skorr eagerly played into Dooku's plot to keep his acolytes fighting each other; secretly pitting Skorr against first Kadrian Sey, then Quinlan Vos. As a fully trained Jedi Knight, Tol Skorr was strong in the Force and adept in wielding its power. Skorr's many years of Jedi training left him proficient in a variety of skills, such as unarmed fighting, common melee weaponry, and at least six forms of lightsaber combat, one of which Skorr mastered before passing the Jedi Trials. Having fallen to the dark side, Skorr was taught certain forbidden techniques by Count Dooku, including a brutal exploitation of the Force's telekinetic applications known as Force Choke. Although not on the level of former Jedi lightsaber instructor Sora Bulq, or even the dark assassin Asajj Ventress, Skorr was considered a useful operative by Count Dooku, worth the effort of protecting. Earning himself notoriety upon aligning with the Confederacy of Independent Systems, Skorr was identified by Jedi Master Tholme as one of the chief threats fellow Master Quinlan Vos would face when attempting to infiltrate Count Dooku's inner circle. Skorr and Master Vos became bitter rivals as they sought to distinguish themselves in the Count's eyes, resulting in a number of vicious confrontations. Well-matched foes, the advantage alternated between Skorr and Vos in their battles as the circumstances of each duel changed, but in the end, Skorr was overpowered by the Kiffar Jedi's rage. Skorr was able to survive two close-quarters confrontations with a massive Sith Hound - an impressive feat even for a trained Force-sensitive. While trained to pilot basic craft and starfighters, Skorr habitually showed weakness as a pilot, getting shot down over Korriban and in the hangar of the Titavian IV by pirates and Quinlan Vos respectively. *Jedi: Count Dooku *Republic 63 *Republic 69 *Republic 70 *Republic 71 *Republic 74 *Republic 75 *Republic 76 *Republic 77 *The New Essential Chronology *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Dark Acolytes Category:Fallen Jedi Category:Humans Category:Males Category:Post-Ruusan Jedi Knights