18028
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Magwit%27s_Mystifying_Hoop
Magwit's Mystifying Hoop
3910

Magwit's Mystifying Hoop was a short-range matter transmitter owned by the magician and illusionist Wim Magwit. Magwit's Mystifying Hoop was an advanced matter transmitter that was comprised of several components. The main components were a pair of two-meter wide teleporter frames, one of which was circular, while the other was rectangular. A teleportation generator and a handheld controller unit were also part of the system. When something or someone passed through one of the frames, they were instantly transported to the other one by the teleportation generator. Each teleporter frame was insulated, and could be held and moved without difficulty. Thirty replaceable matter transmitters were spaced evenly around the inner ring of the hoop, each mounted on a Power Transmitter Receptor. The method by which the teleportation generator moved matter between the two frames was unknown, but theories included breaking down the matter and transmitting it between the frames, or even moving the object through hyperspace. The power needs of the system were enormous, and the frames would drain their power cells within a minute. The generator had the ability to transport an object moving through the frames a maximum range of fifty meters. thumb|left|150px|Schematics of Magwit's Mystifying Hoop. The hoop was originally owned by a strange alien, whom Wim Magwit befriended. After observing the alien using the device and learning would to operate and repair it, Magwit stole the matter transmitter and established himself as a magician, with a traveling magic show that included his wife, Bellina, and their children. While a talented performer and magician, the hoop was the perennial favorite and highlight of Wim Magwit's performances.Boba Fett: Bounty on Bar-Kooda When Boba Fett sought the bounty on the pirate Bar-Kooda, he enlisted the aid of Magwit who had previously been an unwilling member of Bar-Kooda's crew until he managed to escape. Magwit managed to perform a magic show for Bar-Kooda where the pirate travelled through the hoop, right into the Fett's clutches. While escaping Bar-Kooda's ship, Bloodstar, Magwit was forced to abandon the hoop. *Boba Fett: Bounty on Bar-Kooda *The Essential Guide to Characters *The Essential Guide to Weapons and Technology *The New Essential Guide to Weapons and Technology *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Exotic technology