18660
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Finis_Valorum_Memorial
Finis Valorum Memorial
6458

|location=Jrade District, Coruscant |interest= |rebuilt= |builder= |height= |width= |affiliation=Galactic Republic }} The Finis Valorum Memorial was a statue made of marcluro-stone that was built in the Jrade District on the planet Coruscant in 21 BBY. It honored the memory of former Supreme Chancellor Finis Valorum, who had been killed in a terrorist attack prior. The unveiling of the memorial was attended by an audience of 200 spectators, a low number caused by high security in the Jrade District. Senator Bail Organa read a dedication to Valorum at the unveiling. The Finis Valorum Memorial was a marcluro-stone statue built in the Jrade Plaza Chancellery Walkway in the Jrade District on the planetThe Essential Atlas Coruscant in honor of former Galactic Republic Supreme Chancellor Finis Valorum. thumb|right|250px|Finis Valorum, whom the memorial honored In 21 BBY, following Valorum's death in the terrorist attack of 14:9:19, the memorial was planned and approved immediately but was repeatedly delayed for several weeks while the Jrade Plaza was shut down for security investigations in relation to the heightened Core Worlds Security Act. The Finis Valorum Memorial was unveiled on 15:01:13 to a small crowd of 200 spectators&mdash;including Senators Bail Organa and Mon Mothma&mdash;which was dominated by clone troopers and Senate Guards. Organa read a dedication to Valorum, in which he claimed that the former chancellor would not have supported the new security measures that had been introduced in response to the terrorist attack. In a HoloNet News Core Edition article published later that day, Mothma stated that more people should have attended and paid their respects, but they were likely kept inside by constant clone patrols and Beta-level security alerts. The Director of Communications for the Jrade District, Dassa Borkannits, attributed public trauma at the attack to the memorial's low attendance. The Finis Valorum Memorial was first mentioned in "Republic HoloNet News Core Edition 15:01:13," an in-universe HoloNet News report written by Pablo Hidalgo and published in the seventy-third issue of the Star Wars Insider magazine on December 26, 2003. "The Lost One," an episode of the sixth season of Star Wars: The Clone Wars that first aired on March 1, 2014, portrayed Valorum as alive in 20 BBY, places the events of "The Lost One" in 20 BBY. thus contradicting his previously established death in 21 BBY and leaving the canonicity of the Finis Valorum Memorial within the Star Wars Legends continuity uncertain. Category:Coruscant monuments Category:Statues