18862
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Massad_Thrumble
Massad Thrumble
7186

Admiral Massad Thrumble was an Imperial droid researcher, working under Simonelle, who succeeded in creating fully operational human replica droids for numerous clients including Black Sun and the Empire. Some of the HRDs he created included Guri, as well as replicas of Frija Torlock and her father Lexhannen. In his youth, Massad Thrumble worked for the Empire as a Captain in a droid production plant. Eventually, he rose to the rank of Admiral and was in charge of the research facility. There he was involved in the creation of Human replica droids such as Guri.Shadows of the Empire: Evolution 1 Thrumble later retired, and as of 4 ABY he owned and operated a small cantina on Hurd's Moon. He had a modified medical droid, A-OIC, also known as Doc. Doc was stolen by the Pikkel Sisters on behalf of Spinda Caveel of Murninkam. Shortly after this, he was approached by Guri, who wanted him to reprogram her. Thrumble saw it a challenge more interesting that money, however he told Guri that only with Doc he cold perform that operation. Not long after, he was approached by the bounty hunter Kar Yang, who was hired by Savan, niece of Prince Xizor, to capture Guri. Thrumble at first claimed ignorance, and his thugs started moving against the intruder; but seeing everyone felled down by the gigantic Hiitian, Thrumble directed him to Murninkam.Shadows of the Empire: Evolution 2 Guri was successful and returned to Thrumble from Murninkam with the droid. Thrumble warned her that if the procedure wouldn't kill her, she would still survive changed, and Guri insisted. However, she had been pursued. Yang interrupted Thrumble before he could begin the operation on Guri, and obliged her to neutralize Thrumble in order to follow him; but Guri fought and killed him. Thrumble did some recalibrations while Doc removed and disposed Yang's body.Shadows of the Empire: Evolution 3 After the incident Thrumble upgraded the automatic defenses of his protected area, and although there were attempts from other groups to approach Guri, it was proven impossible, as Skahtul related to Savan. The procedure resumed with Doc cautioning about the danger of damaging her neurocortex; later the droid expressed success with the progress of the binhex sequence, but Thrumble pointed out that her brain was too complex to ensure success.Shadows of the Empire: Evolution 4 Three more groups traveled to Hurd's Moon. The first was Caveel and the Pikkel Sisters, who wanted to take back Doc. The second was Savan, and the third was the Heroes of Yavin, who were following Savan. All of them while he and Doc performed the operation to remove Guri's memories.Shadows of the Empire: Evolution 5 Thrumble's defenses held off Savan and her mercenaries and he understood that someone was still after her. With Guri free from her past, Thrumble led her to another room and tried to flee with her. In a security room, Thrumble saw the Pike Sisters (whom Guri had forgotten) and the famous Heroes of Yavin, and told Guri they were all probably after her. Guri ensured him that she was still able to pilot her ship, the Stinger, and on their way to it, she suffered from a sudden headache and Thrumble helped her walk. They were spotted by Prevaro, Savan's lieutenant, and ordered their mercenaries against them. But Guri remembered her fighting abilities and defeated the thugs. They then encountered Savan herself, who tried to take control of Guri using a code phrase she learned from Xizor. Savan ordered Guri to kill Thrumble, but the code phrase did not work, and she instead punched and threw her down. Later Thrumble explained to Luke Skywalker that the bad parts of her memory were wiped, and they let her go in peace. *Agent of the Empire – Iron Eclipse 2 *Shadows of the Empire: Evolution 1 *Shadows of the Empire: Evolution 2 *Shadows of the Empire: Evolution 3 *Shadows of the Empire: Evolution 4 *Shadows of the Empire: Evolution 5 *The Essential Guide to Droids *A Guide to the Star Wars Universe, Third Edition, Revised and Expanded *The New Essential Guide to Droids *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Galactic Empire science and engineering personnel Category:Humans Category:Males Category:Business owners and executives