18834
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Manarai
Manarai
5223

The Manarai, also called MenaraiThe Secrets of Star Wars: Shadows of the Empire, was an upscale restaurant located in Monument Plaza in the Manarai Mountains on Coruscant. The restaurant was built into the wall of the mountains' highest peak, Umate. The Master Chef of this restaurant was Tavvar Va'ran, recognized as the second best Kubaz chef in the galaxy. Sometime during the reign of the Galactic Empire, the Manarai was considered Coruscant's most exclusive restaurant. It sat high atop a spire along Monument Plaza. If prospective guests could afford the astronomical prices, they still had to be approved by the restaurant's management. Reservations had to be booked months on advance. Of course, it was well worth the wait, dinning at the Manarai was described as a surreal experience. The restaurant was structured across multiple tiers, providing every diner with a panoramic view through the transparisteel walls, allowing them to admire Monument Park and the Coruscant skyline. The restaurant staff was as cultured and groomed as its clientele. Renowned throughout the galaxy, the chefs were handpicked by scouts dedicated to discovering new and tantalizing cuisines. One such example was Master Chef Tavvar Va'ran, a Kubaz male. Every member of the serving staff underwent screening and were trained by the Imperial Center's most affluent protocol experts. Security was of great importance at the Manarai, ensuring that patrons can enjoy their meals without the intrusion of outside threats or personal vendettas. Patrons who violated the establishment's standards were rarely permitted to return. From sourcing the finest ingredients from across the Empire and beyond to employing specialized harvester and hunters for exotic fare, the Manarai spared no expense in catering to the most discerning culinary tastes. Signature dishes included: *Fleek eel broiled in zaffa oil *Stuffed yams *Plicto steak *Giant Ithorian snail in flounut butter *Kashyyyk land shrimp *Wroonian flycatcher filet *Sufar greens topped with mecolar briddlings and drezzle sauce *Moonglow The only confirmed co-owners were Prince Xizor and Guri. It was speculated a Hutt clan lord, a coalition of Core World Moffs, and an Imperial Advisor shared stake in the Manarai. The management ensured that the restaurant itself remained the focus of publicity. Being the co-owner, Xizor was allowed in any time he wished and had a specific table reserved. Anyone eating at, or who had reservations at that table at the times that he visited were forced to automatically give up the table. *Darth Plagueis *Republic Commando: Triple Zero *MedStar I: Battle Surgeons *Star Wars: Shadows of the Empire novel *The Secrets of Star Wars: Shadows of the Empire *Shadows of the Empire Sourcebook *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Coruscant dining establishments