19065
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Meeko_Ghintee
Meeko Ghintee
6442

Meeko Ghintee was a male Muttani criminal who was operating during the time of the Invasion of Naboo. A known cheat, Meeko made his dishonest living in the underworld of beast pit-fighting games, such as those held on Outland Transit Station. The Muttani male Meeko Ghintee was native to the astronomical object Kalidorn. During the latter days of the Galactic Republic, Ghintee, a criminal nearly from birth, left street-bound petty theft and became one of the most wanted outlaws in the galaxy.Star Wars: Bounty Hunter: Prima's Official Strategy Guide He acquired a rap sheet full of many crimes, including murder, grand larceny, and violent escapes from multiple prisons. Ghintee moved from place to place in an attempt to avoid the law, eventually settling down on the Outer Rim trading station Outland Transit Station and taking over much of the crime there. He set up fixed beast fighting games, controlling beasts' behavior via remote control. Ghintee ended up frequently incarcerated for such nefarious deeds and underhanded tactics but always made it back to the fighting arenas. thumb|left|180px|Meeko in [[Desolation Alley]] Following the Invasion of Naboo, Meeko was wanted by the Republic Correctional Authority, for a number of charges including murder, assault and larceny, and became one of the highest-priority criminals of the time. Ghintee was captured and given a life sentence at the prison facility known as Desolation Alley on Oovo IV, but he escaped, obtaining the Longshot in the process. However, Meeko was not as free as he would have liked, since Jango Fett tracked the criminal to Outland Station. Meeko initially evaded the bounty hunter by pitting his remote-controlled borhek beast against Fett, and fled into the streets. Meeko commandeered a speeder, but crashed it and fled on foot. Eventually, he was pursued to the docking bay by Jango Fett, where he attempted to finally rid himself of the bounty hunter by using his ship's onboard weapon systems against him. Fett proved too skilled, however, and severely damaged the Longshot before finally apprehending Meeko and promptly collecting his reward for the alien rogue. Meeko was sent back to Desolation Alley, with a second life sentence added to his existing one. However, when Jango Fett arrived on Oovo IV while tracking down Komari Vosa, Meeko saw his chance to escape. Ghintee signed on to a work crew mining ore on the planetoid's rocky surface, and managed to flee the prison&mdash;and Fett&mdash;in a mining vehicle, only for Fett himself to stumble upon them while seeking his own way out. Scared witless, Meeko attempted to shoot Fett down with a rotary blaster cannon, but the bounty hunter once again proved too skilled for the criminal, and swiftly killed Meeko. Ironically, Meeko had a considerable bounty on his head at the time (10,000 Republic credits), which Fett promptly collected. Even more ironically, the bounty was posted by the owner of the borhek which was stolen by Meeko and used to cheat in an Outland Station championship beast pit fight. In the video game Star Wars: Bounty Hunter, players can mark Meeko as a bounty at Merchant Row midway through chapter one, but they cannot secure the bounty until the cut-scene at the end of chapter one. Later in the game, on the level "Chapter 3: The Break Out," Meeko is a secondary bounty who can be killed for 10,000 credits, the highest secondary bounty in the game. He is found in a cave near the end of the level, along with three other prisoners. They are trying to work a mining machine in order to break out of Desolation Alley prison on Oovo IV; he is also the last secondary bounty of the level. The strategy guide incorrectly lists his homeworld as "Kaldun." *Star Wars: Bounty Hunter *Star Wars: Bounty Hunter: Prima's Official Strategy Guide *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Con artists Category:Individuals with he/him pronouns Category:Males Category:Muttani