19008
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Trigon_One
Trigon One
4770

Trigon One was a weapons satellite constructed by the Fromm Gang during the early years of the Galactic Empire. The Fromm Gang was involved in a bitter rivalry with the other major gangs and sought an advantage over their competitors. Although the Fromm's leader, Sise Fromm, was distrustful of technology, his son, Tig Fromm, persuaded his father to invest in the construction of a powerful superweapon which they could use to force the other gangs into submission. thumb|left|250px|Trigon One under construction. Tig Fromm was placed in charge of the construction of Trigon One. Despite Sise's concerns that the vessel looked small, Tig claimed that, at full power, Trigon One would be able to destroy a planet (though this capability was never demonstrated). As Trigon One neared completion, Demma Moll, leader of the resistance cell on the Fromm's homeworld of Annoo, found out about Trigon One and sent her daughter, Kea, on a mission to locate Tig's base on Ingo and destroy the vessel before it could launch. Two residents of Ingo, Thall Joben and Jord Dusat, along with their droids, R2-D2 and C-3PO, happened to pass near to Tig's base while racing their speeders. Fearing that they may have seen something, Tig dispatched sentry droids to attack them. Kea assisted them in escaping and informed them of her plan. Joben and Dusat agreed to help Kea in her mission. The group were able to break into the secret base and steal Trigon One. Joben hid the weapons satellite in a forest on Ingo, but when Sise Fromm kidnapped Dusat and Demma, he agreed to reveal the location in exchange for their release. When Tig Fromm went to retrieve Trigon One, Joben and R2-D2 had already sabotaged the guidance system, causing the ship to collide with and destroy Sise Fromm's base on Annoo. *A Guide to the Star Wars Universe, Second Edition, Revised and Expanded *Star Wars Encyclopedia *The Essential Guide to Droids *C-3PO: Tales of the Golden Droid *A Guide to the Star Wars Universe, Third Edition, Revised and Expanded *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Starship superweapons Category:Starships of the Fromm Gang