19370
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/HK_Manufacturing_Plant
HK Manufacturing Plant
5442

The HK Manufacturing Plant was a secret droid factory used by the crime lord G0-T0 to create HK-50 series assassin droids during the Dark Wars. After Darth Revan witnessed first-hand the abilities of the HK-47 assassin droid he created, he decided that more droids of this design would make excellent agents for his purposes. HK-47 became the basis for a new model of HK-series assassin droids: the HK-50. Revan was captured and his memory was erased before this plan could be realized, however, and the production on the HK-50 model ceases for several years. Eventually, the crime lord G0-T0, who was in fact a planning droid previously assigned to Telos IV, discovered the HK-50 manufacturing facility and reactivated it, disseminating the new model assassin droids throughout the galaxy searching for the Jedi. During her travels Meetra Surik visited to the Telos factory along with HK-47. The assassin droid convinced the HK-50 models to join his cause. The combined droid forces later helped defeat G0-T0 in a showdown on Malachor V allowing for the planet to finally be destroyed. right|thumb|220px|The entrance of the HK Manufacturing Plant in the Telosian Military Base }} The HK manufacturing plant was deleted from Knights of the Old Republic II, though many of the source files were included with the PC version. The "entrance" to the HK Manufacturing Plant however is still in game though the door is sealed shut. When the PC reaches the Military Base on Telos, a door labeled "Sub-Level" is sealed. Beyond the door is supposed to be an elevator leading down into the sub level of the base where a number of control rooms are present to the base and then another elevator into the actual Manufacturing Plant. The HK Manufacturing Plant has been restored by The Sith Lords Restored Content Mod. right|thumb|220px|The main entrance room of the HK Manufacturing Plant right|thumb|220px|A room in the cut interior of the HK Manufacturing Plant In the cut version of the game, the plant was run by G0-T0 to produce HK-50 and HK-51 assassin droids. HK-47 visited the plant during Meetra Surik's journey to locate missing Jedi Council members. During his time in the factory, HK-47 fought a large number of HK-50 droids, and a much smaller number of HK-51 droids. HK-47 had the option to persuade either the HK-50 or the HK-51 droids to join him and defeat G0-T0 on Malachor V. He also had the option to destroy all the droids. According to Chris Avellone, Bao-Dur was intended to die while helping HK-47 reach and shut down the factory. *Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic II: The Sith Lords *The New Essential Guide to Droids *Knights of the Old Republic Campaign Guide *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Droid factories Category:Telos IV locations