19609
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Carlos_Ezquerra
Carlos Ezquerra
3576

Carlos Ezquerra (November 12, 1947 &ndash; October 1, 2018), who has also worked under the alias L. John Silver, was a Spanish comics artist who worked on the comic Star Wars: Mara Jade – By the Emperor's Hand. He worked mainly in British comics and lived in Andorra. He was best known as the co-creator of Judge Dredd. In the 1970s, he worked for Battle Picture Weekly, drawing such strips as Rat Pack, Major Eazy and El Mestizo. During the development of 2000 AD, he created the visual designs for the characters, cityscapes, and technologies for writer John Wagner's character Judge Dredd. Despite creating the character, Wagner and Ezquerra's original Judge Dredd strip was passed on by editor Pat Mills in favor of a more introductory story by another creative team for the character's debut, and their original strip would not be used until years later in an annual. Upset with management disputes, like his and Wagner's Judge Dredd story being passed on for someone else's work on a character he helped create, Ezquerra left 2000 AD to return to work for Battle Picture Weekly in 1977. Carlos Ezquerra and John Wagner also created the character Strontium Dog for Starlord in 1978; the strip would later transfer to 2000 AD when Starlord folded. Other 2000 AD strips he drew included Fiends of the Eastern Front and adaptations of Harry Harrison's Stainless Steel Rat novels. He would later return to Judge Dredd to draw one of the most infamous mega epics, the Apocalypse War, and would go on to draw some of his most memorable adventures. Always a fan favorite, Ezquerra still draws Judge Dredd and Strontium Dog from time to time. Ezquerra also collaborated numerous times with writer Garth Ennis on , Adventures in the Rifle Brigade, , a annual with artist Steve Pugh, and two specials (The Good Old Boys and The Saint of Killers miniseries) for DC Comics, and Just a Pilgrim for Black Bull Entertainment. He provided the art for the Judge Dredd epic Origins in 2000 AD. Carlos passed away from lung cancer on October 1st 2018. *Star Wars: Mara Jade – By the Emperor's Hand *Boba Fett ½ *The Secrets of Star Wars: Shadows of the Empire Category:Comic book pencillers Category:Comic book inkers