19877
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Roan_Lands
Roan Lands
7371

|siblings=new |children=new |affiliation=*Olin and Lands *The Eleven |masters= |apprentices= }} Roan Lands was a young Human male who was the partner of the former Jedi Ferus Olin. They founded the business Olin and Lands, and started the resistance group The Eleven to oppose the Galactic Empire. Olin's former rival, the Jedi-turned-Sith-Lord Darth Vader, killed Lands to provoke Olin. Roan Lands was a Human male who met Ferus Olin shortly after Olin left the Jedi Order. They soon became partners as well as friends. Lands sold all of his possessions to finance the former Jedi's idea for a business, Olin and Lands, in which the two of them would protect people who exposed corruption and dishonesty in various big businesses. On one occasion that Olin would later remember as the best day of his life, they visited the planet Tati and swam together in a waterfall-fed natural pool.The Last of the Jedi: Death on Naboo Shortly following the institution of the Galactic Empire, Lands and Olin started a resistance group called The Eleven. Knowing the consequences of rebellion, the partners made a pact not to find each other should one of them be captured or imprisoned. Along with the Eleven, they started a massive uprising on Bellassa following the Imperial ousting of the Bellassan monarch. However, they were no match for the power of the Empire, and most of them were either killed or jailed. While Olin managed to escape, Lands was put into an Imperial detention facility on Bellassa and tortured heavily with a series of numerous neurotoxins. During his search to find Olin, Obi-Wan Kenobi encountered Lands who was numbed to the point of near death by the neurotoxins. Amie Antin, a doctor and newly-joined member of the Eleven, tried her best to cure Lands using spectacillin to cure the apparent infection and gas binders to rid his blood of the leftover toxins, but nothing worked. Kenobi infiltrated the Imperial Garrison to find out what toxins had been used on Lands and discovered that it was a mixture of neurotoxins consisting of Loquasin and Titroxinate, then Skirtopanol on the final day, listed for use under "Persuasion Techniques." After he was cured, Lands gave Kenobi clues as to where to find Olin. Sometime later, free from the Imperials, Lands reunited with Olin at the Nixor Spaceport and provided him with prefab shelters, food, and supplies to start an asteroid sanctuary for the survivors of the Great Jedi Purge.The Last of the Jedi: Dark Warning Lands later went back to Bellassa and was arrested along with Dona Telamark by the Empire on charges of conspiracy against the government of Bellassa and plotting to assassinate the Bellassan Imperial Advisor. The two prisoners were held aboard the True Justice, a ship owned by Senator Sano Sauro, to coerce Olin into working for the Empire. Scheduled for a speedy trial by Judge Bellican, Attorney Tomay Alcorn, and law clerk Sam Weller, the duo was unexpectedly set free when Solace, Oryon, and Trever Flume, impersonating the Imperial judicial team, hijacked the retrofitted YT-series Corellian transport.The Last of the Jedi: A Tangled Web After providing assistance to the residents of the asteroid base,The Last of the Jedi: Return of the Dark Side Lands returned to Bellassa and the Eleven to continue resisting the Empire while Olin remained inside as a double agent. However, when the Empire publicized Olin's collaboration with the Imperial takeover, the whole city of Ussa was demoralized. The Eleven knew that Olin was a double agent, but many Bellassans did not, so Lands used a signal to communicate to Olin to meet him. Olin told Lands that the Eleven could have fifteen minutes to hit an Imperial factory for information. The three-person team was decided to be Lands, Flume, and Amie Antin. Everything went as planned until they stumbled across Darth Vader himself. Olin arrived shortly, but Vader struck down Lands to provoke Olin. With his last breath, Olin and Lands shared their own private farewell.The Last of the Jedi: Secret Weapon Author Jude Watson, who created Roan Lands and Ferus Olin, addressed via Twitter that she envisioned the pair as mutually in love and married. *The Last of the Jedi: The Desperate Mission *The Last of the Jedi: Dark Warning *The Last of the Jedi: Underworld *The Last of the Jedi: Death on Naboo *The Last of the Jedi: A Tangled Web *The Last of the Jedi: Return of the Dark Side *The Last of the Jedi: Secret Weapon *The Last of the Jedi: Against the Empire *The Last of the Jedi: Master of Deception *The Last of the Jedi: Reckoning *Rebel Force: Hostage *Rebel Force: Uprising *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia *The Essential Reader's Companion Category:Bellassans Category:Business owners and executives Category:Humans Category:LGBTQIA+ individuals Category:Males Category:The Eleven members