20232
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Kamarian
Kamarian
6288

The Kamarians were an insect-like species native to Kamar. During the Imperial era, the most technologically advanced Kamarians had just developed nuclear weapons, and were well on their way to developing clean fusion and spaceflight.The Essential Atlas Despite this, they still lived in a feudal society. They organized themselves into small tribes or city-states called tk'skquas which often battled each other for territory. Kamarians had round heads with large compound eyes, four arms, two legs, and prehensile tails. They had segmented bodies covered in an exoskeleton which sealed water within their bodies. This allowed them to go for up to twenty-five days without water before feeling the effects of dehydration. Most adult Kamarians stood between 1.3 and 1.7 meters tall. Kamarians were divided into several races, distinguished by size, carapace color, language, and culture. The most numerous and technologically advanced Kamarian races were the mountain dwellers, whose tk'skquas lived in mountain cave systems. Another group of special note were the Kamarian "Badlanders", a group native to the Kamar Badlands. "Badlanders" were slightly smaller than other Kamarians, being only 1.1 to 1.4 meters high. They were also hardier, able to survive even longer without water and adapted to even higher temperatures. They were also more primitive technologically and culturally, using only simple tools and armed only with spears. thumb|left|180px|A Kamarian Han Solo and Chewbacca once visited the Kamarian Badlanders, taking local handicrafts as admission for a makeshift holotheater they had set up. These desert people were fascinated by the documentary Varn, World of Water and its portrayal of the watery planet Varn, and began to start a religion around it. Due to a language barrier, Solo was unaware of the significance the documentary now held for the Kamarians; all he knew was that they had never seen any holos before and thus were awed even by the dull documentary he had been showing them. Solo guessed that sooner or later the Kamarians would become bored with "World of Water" and thus contacted a smuggler friend of his, Sonniod, to bring a new holofeature to Kamar for him to show at his theater. When Sonniod obliged and Solo displayed the holo he had brought, "Love is Waiting," it became obvious to the smugglers that the Badlanders viewed the holotheater more than simple entertainment. The Badlanders of the Cult of Varn reacted violently to the "sacrilege" of showing a different holo, destroying the holoprojector and thereby eliminating any chance that the smugglers might be able to mollify them by showing them "World of Water." Solo, Chewbacca and Sonniod were forced to flee in the Millennium Falcon. Soon after their departure from Kamar, Sonniod returned with a new copy of Varn, World of Water, and the Cult of Varn's activities continued. Unfortunately for Solo, the Kamarians managed to track him down some months later and take him prisoner, demanding he turn their world into the watery paradise he had shown them. Solo escaped but was reluctant to talk to anybody about his experience as a captive of the Kamarians, even in later years to his wife, Leia Organa Solo. As a result of whatever he endured during that time, many years later Solo still had an aversion to insectoid species such as Killiks. Some Kamarians were under the influence of black membrosia during the Dark Nest Crisis and assisted in the Killik war effort. A few of them were seen asking Jaina Solo about her father. *Jedi Quest: The Shadow Trap *Republic 46 *Han Solo's Revenge *Dark Nest I: The Joiner King *Dark Nest II: The Unseen Queen *Dark Nest III: The Swarm War *Millennium Falcon *A Guide to the Star Wars Universe *Han Solo and the Corporate Sector Sourcebook *Alliance Intelligence Reports *Alien Encounters *The Essential Guide to Alien Species *The Essential Atlas Category:Insectoid sentient species Category:Wild Space sentient species