20484
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Potentium
Potentium
8015

The Potentium, known earlier as Relativism, was the name of a heretical philosophy which viewed the Force as a unified whole—eschewing its traditional division into light and dark sides—as well as the name of the sect of beings who followed this philosophy. Its members also used the term "Potentium" to refer to the Force itself, instead of using the vernacular term common to most of the galaxy: "the Force." thumb|right|250px|Followers of the Potentium Counter to millennia of Jedi teachings, the followers of Potentium claimed that there was no inherent evil in viewing the Force. They heretically claimed that what others called the light side of the Force was actually just the Force itself, which was inherently good. What others therefore called the dark side was a perversion of the Force, twisted by those who used it. This belief system was originally known as relativism.The Jedi Path: A Manual for Students of the Force Believers of Potentium claimed that the potential for light and dark resided in the user, not the Force itself,Jedi vs. Sith: The Essential Guide to the Force and that the Jedi were merely afraid to explore the full potential of the Force.Power of the Jedi Sourcebook They also thought that the Jedi Masters refused to believe in the Potentium view because it would mean the Jedi were not needed to fight evil, for evil would not exist. And since there was no dark side, there were no dark side actions or Force techniques; in effect any action, good or evil, could be performed without risk as long as the intent was not evil. Some Jedi theorized that the Potentium may have originated as a Sith scheme to subvert Jedi teachings. The dangerous conclusion to this philosophy, thus, would be that any action could be justified under the pretense of having been done with good intentions, and that the radicals who followed this philosophy would come to assume they could not have any Ill-intent. About a century before the Battle of Naboo, the followers of Potentium were expelled from the Jedi Order, parallel to the Jedi Order's treatment of Gray Jedi as "misguided." Yoda and the rest of the Jedi High Council did not consider them Dark Jedi, but they said it was the duty of the Jedi to use the Force to protect others, not study its absolute limits—which the Council claimed would lead to the dark side. Some who followed this creed felt that Jedi could freely kill with dark side lightning and by crushing the throats of their foes while using the Force to cause terror, so long as these actions were committed with good intentions. It should be noted that some followers of the Potentium still attempted to avoid the dark side. They, however, saw the dark side as something within themselves to be avoided, not something in the Force. They reasoned that if the Force was the energy that flows through all life, the dark side simply came from the corruption of living beings. The believers felt that if they could be perfectly moral, they could be immune to the dark side and therefore use any technique they wanted. This view was somewhat similar to the Unifying Force theory of the Force. By 43 ABY, both followers of this path and the Jedi recognized it as heretical.Fate of the Jedi: Abyss The Sith likewise understood it as misguided, with Sidious being explicitly disabused of this notion early in his Sith career.Darth Plagueis The Potentium was founded as a group by Leor Hal some time during or before 132 BBY, although the original relativistic theory long preceded them, having been a threat to the Jedi since at least Darth Bane's time. Although the New Jedi Order suspected that the philosophy could have originated as a Sith scheme to subvert the Jedi, they acknowledged that neither Hal nor his followers were known to have had any connection to the Sith or the dark side, even after their expulsion. Most of Hal's followers were Padawans, and he managed to sway many students from among the aristocratic families of Coruscant and Alderaan. The group agitated against the teachings of their Masters and the hierarchy of the Temple until, in 132 BBY, Hal was expelled from the Order along with many of his followers, with the rest choosing to leave on their own. The New Jedi Order also suspected that Vergere had been influenced by the Potentium's beliefs, but accused her of twisting the philosophy to suit herself rather than being a true follower of the Potentium. Sekot, the intelligent essence of the planet Zonama Sekot, accepted Potentium after its awakening, when it was colonized by some of the outcast followers under their first Magister, Hal. The colonists felt Zonama Sekot was proof of the Potentium philosophy, and Sekot eventually came to consider itself the protector of the Force (though as some derisively pointed out, this protectorship was self-appointed). Sekot later confessed to young Anakin Skywalker, however, that indeed it was not the Potentium. At some point before 44 BBY, Jedi Masters Qui-Gon Jinn and Mace Windu had a run-in with a group of Potentium apprentices. *Darth Plagueis *Rogue Planet *Coruscant Nights III: Patterns of Force *The New Jedi Order: Destiny's Way *The New Jedi Order: Force Heretic III: Reunion *The New Jedi Order: The Unifying Force *Legacy of the Force: Exile *Fate of the Jedi: Abyss *Power of the Jedi Sourcebook *The New Essential Chronology *Jedi vs. Sith: The Essential Guide to the Force *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Force philosophies