20570
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Snoova
Snoova
28226

. |cyber=Cybernetic eye patch in right eye socketScum and Villainy |families= |parents= |partners= |siblings= |children= |affiliation=*Black Sun *Aurodium Sword |masters= |apprentices= }} Snoova was a Wookiee bounty hunter and mercenary active during the Galactic Civil War. He was ostracized from Wookiee society and faced the death penalty on his homeworld, Kashyyyk, due to his violation of the Wookiee injunction against the use of his species' natural claws for anything other than climbing, which rumors indicated Snoova broke when slashing at an opponent in a brawl over the affections of a female Wookiee paramour. Snoova escaped Kashyyyk and turned to a life of bounty hunting&mdash;an unusual profession for a member of his species&mdash;and mercenary work. Because Wookiees were an enslaved species under the regime of the Galactic Empire, Snoova specifically pursued bounties posted by the galactic government, and his successes gained him such renown that he was able to travel through the Empire with impunity. Snoova had a unique appearance: brown fur splotched with black, head-hair cut into a flat-topped spacer's style, and a monocle ocular enhancer worn over his right eye until he had it surgically rooted in his eye socket to replace his right eye. Snoova preferred to work alone, but he occasionally teamed up with associates from Aurodium Sword and the Black Sun criminal organizations, as well as with fellow bounty hunters, such as the Ubese Boushh. Snoova's fame inspired the Human replica droid Guri to disguise another well-known Wookiee, the Rebel Alliance operative Chewbacca, as Snoova in an effort to smuggle him past customs in Imperial City, where Chewbacca was a wanted Rebel agent. thumb|right|250px|Snoova fled Kashyyyk under mysterious circumstances and became a mercenary and bounty hunter. Snoova was a native of the planet Kashyyyk, homeworld of his species, the Wookiees. He fled the planet for unconfirmed reasons, though rumors suggested that he had gotten into a fight with a family member over the affections of a Wookiee female. The story held that in the altercation, Snoova attacked and maimed his rival with his climbing claws, a capital offense in Wookiee society, and earned himself the designation of "madclaw.". Snoova was forced to flee to avoid the death mark placed on his head,A Guide to the Star Wars Universe, Third Edition, Revised and Expanded. and for the remainder of his life, he lived as an exile from Wookiee society. Snoova took to mercenary stints as he made his way in the galaxy. He worked for a time as an indentured servant to a small-time crime boss named Asteria, but as soon as his contract expired, he moved on to bigger pursuits. The Wookiee eventually picked up bounty hunting, an unusual line of work for a Wookiee at the time. As the Galactic Civil War raged throughout the galaxy, Snoova's species was officially enslaved by the Galactic Empire; therefore, Snoova relegated himself to Imperial space and pursued bounties posted by the Empire. Such practices afforded him freedom of movement in spite of his species' enslavement, as although he was technically enslaved, his identification datawork listed him as belonging to himself. At some point, Snoova lost an eye in pursuit of a bounty. He had it replaced with a monocle ocular enhancer eye patch that he had previously worn as a hunting aid. After the surgery, the device connected to cybernetics hidden in his right eye socket. thumb|left|200px|Although he preferred to work alone, Snoova worked for a time with Aurodium Sword. Although he preferred to operate alone, Snoova occasionally worked with various criminal organizations and partnered with fellow bounty hunters and mercenaries. He worked alongside the Ubese bounty hunter Boushh on at least one occasion. At another point, Snoova worked for or with Aurodium Sword Executive Security, a mercenary organization that provided security and paramilitary support to high-ranking clients. The Wookiee participated in a skirmish alongside the group's leader, a rogue ARC trooper known as Muzzle, as well as another Wookiee while defending a Sullustan executive from a squad of assassins. An image captured from the fight made its way to an Imperial intelligence agent, who filed a report on Aurodium Sword with the Empire. A few months after the Battle of Yavin, Commander Maximillian Seerdon of the Imperial Security Bureau included the report and image in his dossier on various underworld figures. Although pictured, Snoova was not named in the document. At some point, Snoova worked as a mercenary for the Black Sun criminal syndicate. When the Empire posted the Emperor's Most Wanted, a list of high-stakes bounties on critical Rebel Alliance leaders, sometime after the Battle of Talus, Snoova was among the bounty hunters who hunted for the individuals named. He captured a bounty from the list and delivered his quarry to a fellow bounty hunter, Bossk, at the Dee'ja Peak Imperial outpost on the planet Naboo. Meanwhile, witnesses spread rumors of the capture, and Rebel agents, posing as smugglers, arrived at Dee'ja Peak to search out Snoova and reclaim his Rebel bounty. The Wookiee's contacts warned him of the Rebel stalkers, so Snoova lay in wait and surprised the interlopers. Near the center of the outpost, their leader was pushed into an alley, where Snoova and several Black Sun thugs attacked. The Wookiee bounty hunter was wounded during the long and vicious firefight, and his Black Sun associates fled. Reluctantly, Snoova answered the Rebel's questions and put them on the trail of Bossk, who knew the prisoners' location. }} By 3 ABY, Snoova was well-known, his fame such that he was the most famous Wookiee bounty hunter in the galaxy.. That year, a Human Rebel Alliance leader, Princess Leia Organa, sought the aid of the Falleen Prince Xizor, head of Black Sun, in her efforts to rescue her fellow Rebel, Human smuggler Han Solo, who had fallen into the clutches of the Mandalorian bounty hunter Boba Fett. Organa also sought information on who was trying to assassinate her friend, the Human Jedi Luke Skywalker.Shadows of the Empire 4 Because Organa and her Wookiee companion, Chewbacca, were well-known members of the Rebel Alliance, they required a means of sneaking past the Imperial customs agents waiting for them in Imperial City, the galactic capital on the planet Coruscant, where Black Sun's headquarters was located. Black Sun agreed to help them do so, and they decided that Chewbacca should be disguised as Snoova. thumb|right|300px|Lonay approaches a chained Snoova. Meanwhile, Snoova unwittingly became part of Black Sun's Rebel deal. As he was leaving a meeting with Asteria in her townhouse, the Wookiee was ambushed by thugs with shock batons, stun pikes, and tranq slugs. The bounty hunter was unable to fight them off, and when he next awoke, found himself in a tiny cell, his arms chained above his head and his hands encased in mitts to prevent him from lashing out with his claws. Eventually, the Twi'lek Vigo Lonay informed the prisoner that he had been taken "out of the picture" for a time and locked up at a slave camp so that someone could impersonate the hunter on Coruscant. Despite Snoova's angry threats and attempts to break free, the Twi'lek told the Wookiee that he would receive substantial recompense for the arrangement. With Snoova hidden safely away, the Black Sun Human replica droid, Guri, disguised Leia Organa as the Ubese hunter Boushh and dressed Chewbacca in Snoova's distinctive look. As part of his disguise, Chewbacca shaved the top of his head into a squared-off style and dyed black spots into his fur. Chewbacca also carried Snoova's preferred weapons: a vibro-ax and large blaster rifle. Their disguises successfully allowed both of them passage through customs on Coruscant, and they were eventually welcomed by Prince Xizor into his Xizor's Palace and removed their disguises. thumb|left|Although Snoova preferred close combat to gunplay, one of his favored weapons was a heavy blaster rifle. By 3 ABY, Snoova was well known among the galactic fringe.The Secrets of Star Wars: Shadows of the Empire Other bounty hunters were cautious around him, as he had a reputation as brutal and bloodthirsty due to his explosive temper and unbridled anger; even in his best moments, Snoova's sour demeanor manifested in irritable growling at even the most minor of nuisances. The Wookiee showed little concern for decorum or niceties, and he was not afraid to bully others to get what he wanted from them. Of the few practicing Wookiee bounty hunters during the Galactic Civil War, Snoova earned a reputation as the most vicious. Snoova rejected Wookiee society's interdiction against the use of climbing claws in combat. Instead, the Wookiee bounty hunter preferred his natural weapons in close combat as a means to maim his enemies, and he relented to blasters only when necessary.. The proclivity earned him the designation of madclaw and made him an outcast in Wookiee society. For the most part, however, Snoova comported himself well with his clients, and when such dealings annoyed him, the Wookiee took out his aggressions on his prey. Snoova was somewhat paranoid and preferred to work alone. He disliked allegiances with other bounty hunters because he was never sure they would not betray him and claim the bounty on his head from the Wookiees of Kashyyyk. Likewise, Snoova steered clear of fellow Wookiees, as he knew that the death mark on his head meant they might subject him to Wookiee law&mdash;the death penalty&mdash;for his madclaw status. Nevertheless, Snoova allied with a fellow Wookiee while working for Aurodium Sword, and with other bounty hunters on occasion when he felt it expedient. Snoova's brown coat featured distinctive black spots, including a mask-like patch of fur across his eyes.. The pattern was unusual for a Wookiee, and it earned Snoova the nickname "the furry bandit" from other bounty hunters&mdash;although no one used the soubriquet to his face&mdash;and made him instantly recognizable. Snoova enhanced his unique appearance by keeping his hair styled in a short spacer's cut characterized by a short flattop and ponytail. Snoova's breath smelled foul at least on occasion. The prefix Sno- in Snoova's name meant "curious," "fast," and "quick" in his native language, Shyriiwook, and the suffix -ova meant "eye," "gazer," "seeker," and "seer." thumb|right|Snoova's cybernetic monocle ocular enhancer gave him enhanced visual acuity. Snoova was a skilled fighter, competent with the bowcasters typically preferred by his species but equally adept with a blaster, with additional skill and training in the use of repeating blasters. Snoova was proficient in the use of melee weapons and blaster rifles, the latter class of weaponry he wielded with brute force and little concern for finesse. The Wookiee excelled most of all at hand-to-hand brawling, a pursuit to which he was able to apply his natural climbing claws to shred his opponents. Streetwise and savvy, Snoova was able to navigate the galaxy's criminal underworld with ease. He was skilled at spotting hidden quarries and was also skilled in stealth himself. The Wookiee had a penchant for intimidation. He was trained to pilot starships and repulsorlift vehicles, and he had good endurance and the skill to cope with survival situations. Although Snoova was literate in Basic and able to comprehend the language, his physiology allowed him to speak only Shyriiwook, his native tongue. Snoova's preferred weapons were a vibro-ax, heavy blaster pistol,Star Wars: The Action Figure Archive blaster rifle, light repeating blaster, and grenade. He also wore an ammunition bandoleer and belt. Other equipment the Wookiee carried included a medpac, satchel, binders, comlink, and datapad. The Wookiee utilized a removable device that featured a monocle ocular enhancer that afforded him low-light vision and enhanced visual acuity. After an accident cost the Wookiee his eye, Snoova made the rig a permanent feature when he had it installed as a cybernetic eye patch in his right eye socket. He often wore a pauldron over one shoulder.. When Chewbacca impersonated the bounty hunter, he wore a short cape and a thigh holster. }} thumb|right|250px|The Shadows of the Empire project afforded Hasbro the chance to design the look of Chewbacca in his Snoova disguise. Snoova was created for the Shadows of the Empire multimedia project, which entered development in 1994.Aurra Sing: Dawn of the Bounty Hunters Snoova was one of the several new Star Wars characters designed by the toy company Hasbro for the project, and both Mark Boudreaux and Mike Butkus have been attributed as the designers of the character. Snoova's look became the basis for a Hasbro action figure of Chewbacca disguised as the Wookiee outlaw, part of the Shadows of the Empire toy line, released in June 1996.Star Wars Year By Year: A Visual History, New Edition The figure came with a blaster rifle, vibro-ax, and detachable cape. Snoova was first mentioned in the Shadows of the Empire multimedia project's eponymous novel, published in May 1996,The Essential Reader's Companion via being impersonated by Chewbacca. Snoova first appeared in "Out of the Picture," a short story included in the Shadows of the Empire Sourcebook, a roleplaying guide published as part of the multimedia project in June 1996 by West End Games. The Shadows of the Empire Sourcebook claims Snoova's ocular enhancer is a mere tool used by Snoova, but the sourcebook Scum and Villainy, published on November 18, 2008, labels it a cybernetic replacement for a lost eye. The biography above assumes that both sources are correct, albeit for different periods in Snoova's life. The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia, published on December 9, 2008, presents an image of Chewbacca in his Snoova disguise&mdash;taken from the cover of Shadows of the Empire 4, which was published by Dark Horse Comics on August 7, 1996&mdash;as an image of Snoova himself. In 2001's Star Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds,Star Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds 2007's Star Wars Battlefront: Renegade Squadron,Star Wars Battlefront: Renegade Squadron and 2009's Star Wars Battlefront: Elite Squadron video games,Star Wars Battlefront: Elite Squadron players can create a "Wookiee bounty hunter" unit that features Snoova's signature hairstyle and ocular enhancer. *Star Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds *Star Wars Battlefront: Elite Squadron *Star Wars Battlefront: Renegade Squadron *Star Wars: Shadows of the Empire novel *Shadows of the Empire 4 *The Secrets of Star Wars: Shadows of the Empire *Shadows of the Empire Sourcebook *Star Wars: The Art of the Brothers Hildebrandt *The Essential Guide to Weapons and Technology *Star Wars: The Action Figure Archive *Star Wars Encyclopedia *Star Wars: Behind the Magic *A Guide to the Star Wars Universe, Third Edition, Revised and Expanded *Aurra Sing: Dawn of the Bounty Hunters |cards= }} *Star Wars: The Ultimate Visual Guide *Obsessed With Star Wars *Scum and Villainy *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia |cards= }} *Star Wars Galaxies Memory Book *The Essential Reader's Companion *Star Wars: Edge of the Empire Core Rulebook }} Category:Black Sun members Category:Bounty hunters Category:Cyborgs with prosthetics Category:Individuals of unspecified gender Category:Individuals with he/him pronouns Category:Individuals with lost eyes Category:Kashyyyk residents Category:Mercenaries Category:Wookiees