20935
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Benedict_Vidkun
Benedict Vidkun
7434

Benedict Vidkun was a henpecked engineer working in the sewers on Coruscant in Imperial City. Vidkun worked as an engineer at the Imperial Complex. Most of Vidkun's low salary was spent on expensive items by his younger wife. His two brothers-in-law were Lair and Daiv. He was a contact of Dash Rendar, who accompanied Luke Skywalker, Lando Calrissian and Chewbacca to rescue Leia Organa from Prince Xizor. They paid for the information and the plans for the sewers that led to Xizor's Palace and hired him to open the grates and the zapping failsafe mechanism. For some reason they didn't trust Vidkun and did not allow him to call his wife before leaving, nor to hold a blaster in the sewers, fearing that he would turn them in. thumb|left|Vidkun in the sewers of Coruscant He led the band via the sewers until outside the Palace's recycling room. He left them a key and started to leave, but Lando insisted that he come along and wait for them. After a brief argument, Vidkun pulled out his hidden blaster and shot Dash, whom he injured at the hip, but Dash shot him between the eyes immediately after. Vidkun was a sickly, thin and pale Human male with bulging brown eyes, a larger nose, a wispy beard and mustache, and sharp yellow teeth. He often cleared his throat. In his married life he was tormented by his demanding wife.The Secrets of Star Wars: Shadows of the Empire thumb|Vidkun as depicted on the Shadows of the Empire trading card The Shadows of the Empire novel, comic and sourcebook describe and show Vidkun as a thin and short goblin-like figure. The Topps Shadows of the Empire trading cards by Greg and Tim Hildebrandt depict Rendar shooting Vidkun. There, Vidkun, seen from the rear, appears as a normal medium-statured and well-built man. Benedict Vidkun, identified as a traitor, shares his name with two notorious historical figures, whose names have become synonymous with traitor: Benedict Arnold, an officer of the American Revolutionary War who betrayed the Continental Army to the British, leading to his name evolving into an epithet for traitor in the United States; and Vidkun Quisling, a Norwegian politician whose collaboration with the Germans in their occupation of Norway during World War II established his last name as a synonym for "traitor" in several languages. *Star Wars: Shadows of the Empire novel *Star Wars: Shadows of the Empire abridged audiobook *Star Wars: Shadows of the Empire junior novelization *Shadows of the Empire 6 *The Secrets of Star Wars: Shadows of the Empire *Shadows of the Empire Sourcebook |cards= }} *Star Wars: The Art of the Brothers Hildebrandt *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Coruscanti Category:Engineers Category:Humans Category:Males