21011
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Narmle_(city)
Narmle (city)
7478

Starting Location: "Rori" |destroyed= |rebuilt= |builder=King Narmlé |mayor= |celestialbody=Rori |continent= |location=Narmle SwampStarting Location: "Narmle" |climate= |interest=*Cybernetics Lab *Horace Korr's warehouse *Narmle Memorial RallySwoop race track: "Narmle Memorial Rally" on Rori *Narmle Starport |population= |demonym= |affiliation=*Royal House of Naboo *Galactic Republic *Galactic Empire }} Narmle was the first of two settlements built on Naboo's moon of Rori. Named for King Narmlé of Naboo, Narmle was the capital city of Rori. Narmle was nestled in the Narmle Swamp in the southwestern portion of Rori. The expansive Narmle Bog bordered the city to the south and east. The city was built by Naboo architects in a classical Naboo style. In general, the residents of Narmle were a very open and welcoming people, both kind to strangers and hospitable to all visitors. Tourists were often directed to the fabled "Talking Bantha," a large and hairy bantha that apparently spoke with great insight and wisdom. Although scholars insisted that the Talking Bantha was a simple hoax, the verbose creature continued to attract curiosity seekers from across the galaxy. thumb|left|250px|A park in Narmle. Although technically under the control of Naboo's Monarch of Naboo, Narmle was largely self-governed by a handful of elected officials. The Governor of Rori, who was charged with ruling the entire population of the moon, had his home and offices in Narmle and was part of the Naboo Royal Advisory Council. The city of Narmle maintained its own militia. Narmle hosted the annual Narmle Memorial Rally, which attracted a large number of thrill-seekers from across the galaxy. Narmle was the first settlement built on the moon Rori during the colonization of the moon around 2032 BBY. The city was founded by King Narmlé of Naboo who planned its construction during the colonization of Rori. The city's founders selected its location because they believed the Narmle Bog would protect the settlement from any dangerous native inhabitants, while the lands to the north and west promised an abundance of natural resources. Unfortunately, life in Narmle proved much more difficult than any of the Naboo colonists expected, and the city never became the hub of agriculture that its original founders envisioned. Narmle would have withered away if not for the onset of a devastating Brainworm Rot Plague nearly two hundred years before the Battle of Naboo. Narmle's inhabitants were commissioned to build a second settlement, Restuss, to quarantine infected colonists traveling to Naboo. The influx of credits and new labor helped Narmle expand into a small, thriving city. Medical research conducted in Narmle eventually helped cure the plague, and the Republic officials rewarded the city for its efforts, by funding the construction of a Center for Arts and Education. Although the city remained small compared to other capital cities such as Theed or Coronet, it was far more remarkable than during its early days as a simple supply outpost for hard-working farmers. Narmle maintained a friendly rivalry with its sister city of Restuss. As the only cities on Rori, Narmle and Restuss typically competed for funds, visitors, and settlers from Naboo. Narmle's inhabitants often exhibited a sense of superiority, stemming from the fact that Narmle natives actually built Restuss. The rivalry had become heated on occasion, although it had only rarely erupted into violence. During the Galactic Civil War, Narmle, like Rori itself, went relatively unnoticed by most of the galaxy. By the time of the Battle of Yavin, the moon was ruled by Governor Ferrox who represented the Queen of Naboo Kylantha. The following individuals were residents or visitors of the city in the time after the Battle of Yavin: Oxil Sarban, Geg Winthazen, Dender, Seldair Keeloo, Biribas Tarun, Goru Rainstealer, Jaleela Bindoo, Sidoras Bey, Sindra Lintikoor, Zeelius Kraymunder, Nym, Kole,Star Wars Galaxies: Rage of the Wookiees Doctor Edvar Vang, Kaila Min,Star Wars Galaxies: Jump to Lightspeed Wolff Kalos,Star Wars Galaxies: Rage of the Wookiees Ria, Wernell Covington, Horace Korr, and Orden Tarc. *Star Wars Galaxies: The Ruins of Dantooine *Star Wars Galaxies: An Empire Divided Quick Reference Guide *Star Wars Galaxies: The Total Experience: Prima Official Game Guide *Star Wars Galaxies: The Complete Guide: Prima Official Game Guide Category:Capital cities Category:Rori locations