21068
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Fodo_Medoo
Fodo Medoo
7015

Fodo Medoo was a Rodian male gambler who lived during the Jedi Civil War between the Galactic Republic and Sith Empire. In 3956 BBY, he worked loading cargo for the Czerka Corporation on the Mid Rim planet of Kashyyyk. He spent his time off playing the card game pazaak. Fodo Medoo was a Rodian gambler who lived during the Jedi Civil War between the Galactic Republic and Sith Empire. He was informally working for the Czerka Corporation on the forested Mid Rim planet of Kashyyyk, known by the corporation as Edean. Medoo worked loading ships with cargo when they arrived on the world. He mostly spent his time playing the card game pazaak when no ships were present. Medoo heard rumors of the attack on the Outer Rim ecumenopolis of Taris, but didn't pay much attention since he didn't know anyone from the planet. In 3956 BBY,The Essential Atlas places the events of Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic, in which Fodo Medoo appears, in 3956 BBY. former Sith Lord Revan, retrained as a Jedi and suffering from amnesia, arrived on Kashyyyk during his search for the Rakatan Star Maps. Revan approached Medoo on the landing pad and asking the Rodian about himself and the planet. Medoo described his work and explained that he didn't know much about the planet, directing Revan to the Czerka administrator Janos Wertka. He mentioned that regardless of who won the ongoing war, they would always need someone to load cargo. Revan agreed to play pazaak with him with low stakes. Medoo decided to continue playing after four losses and increased the wager. Medoo lost another four games to Revan and raised the stakes again. He said that he should know to quit, but he didn't have anything else to do nor anywhere else to spend his credits. Medoo noted that Revan was the most challenging player he had played against in a long time, as there weren't many pazaak players near the dock. After a ninth loss, Medoo was out of spending credits and instead wagered extra pazaak cards. Revan won yet again, his tenth win in a row. Medoo gave Revan the promised cards, mentioning that the games were the best fun he had recently. He noted that ten wins was considered a tournament victory by some, but that he never made it to such tournaments. The Rodian then told Revan that he had to return to work and left the landing pad. Following Revan's exploits on the planet and the Wookiee Chieftain Chuundar death, the Wookiees of Rwookrrorro rebelled against the Czerka Corporation, causing Czerka personnel, including Fodo Medoo to leave the area. Fodo Medoo was a Rodian male with Copper-colored skin and black eyes. Medoo enjoyed playing pazaak during his time off, and often told people to never quit on a loss. He was relatively indifferent to the war, assuming that he would have a job regardless of which faction won. He believed that the Wookiees could call the planet whatever they wanted, but referred to it as Edean since the Czerka Corporation paid to name the local trade routes. Medoo wore green and teal suit with bronze-colored boots, a brown harness, and a brown utility belt with a pouch and blaster holster. He carried a pazaak deck with several cards and an extra deck that he was looking to sell. Fodo Medoo appeared in the 2003 video game Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic, developed by BioWare. Interactions with him are optional and have no affect on plot, quests, or alignment. If the player does not have a pazaak deck Medoo will offer one that the player may buy for seventy-five credits or persuade him to give for free. He will also give the player a pamphlet containing the game's rules. If the player loses to Medoo, he will apologize and encourage Revan to not end on a loss. *Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic Category:Gamblers Category:Kashyyyk residents Category:Males Category:Rodians