21326
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Feena_D%27Asta
Feena D'Asta
6567

Feena D'Asta was a politician in the Imperial Remnant and the daughter of Baron Ragez D'Asta. Noted for her ambition, she was friends with Mirith Sinn, the wife of her father's business partner. In 7 ABY, she was kidnapped by the combined agents of Black Sun and Grappa the Hutt, and replaced with a clone. Kir Kanos later rescued her. In the years following the Battle of Endor, Feena's father, Baron Ragez D'Asta, was a member of the Imperial Ruling Council. Eventually, the Baron grew ill and Feena took his seat on the council. In her time on the Council, D'Asta was noted for her fervor in representing her father's interests.Star Wars: Crimson Empire II: Council of Blood In 6 ABY, Y'ull Acib took control of Black Sun and attempted to infiltrate the Imperial Ruling Council. To this end, he had members of Black Sun kidnap Feena D'Asta in 7 ABY. A clone of D'Asta was planted on the Council by Black Sun. The clone's appearance went unnoticed by the Ruling Council because Black Sun kept the real D'Asta drugged as a source of information. Baron D'Asta had had no contact with his daughter since before the kidnapping and remained unaware of the switch. Four years after her kidnapping, in a deal with Black Sun member Macus Kayniph, Grappa the Hutt traded a shipment of gree spice for the real Feena D'Asta. D'Asta was taken to Genon where she remained a prisoner. During a party celebrating the trade, Mirith Sinn, her old childhood friend, attempted to rescue D'Asta, but was interrupted when Massimo betrayed her to Grappa. Grappa the Hutt slowly lost control of events going on around him, and Mirith Sinn returned to Genon with Tav Kennede and several New Republic fighters. She forced Grappa to turn over D'Asta and Kir Kanos, who had recently been captured. While the rescue was taking place, Baron D'Asta attacked the new Emperor Xandel Carivus for the imprisonment of his daughter. The baron was unaware that the Feena imprisoned was actually a clone of his daughter. thumb|left|250px|Feena D'Asta at the peace negotiations In 13 ABY, she represented her father in a meeting with Gilad Pellaeon, urging him to consider a truce with the New Republic as the price of returning their sector into the Empire. She contacted Mirith Sinn on Coruscant to get her help in suggesting the truce to the New Republic.Crimson Empire III: Empire Lost 3 She eventually met Mirith Sinn and Kir Kanos but the negotiations were interrupted when they were attacked by stormtroopers of a dissident Imperial faction, the Restored Empire. Feena D'Asta was killed during the ambush. Sinn and Kanos later returned Feena's body to her father on Nez Peron. *Crimson Empire II: Council of Blood 3 *Crimson Empire II: Council of Blood 5 *Crimson Empire II: Council of Blood 6 *Crimson Empire III: Empire Lost 2 *Crimson Empire III: Empire Lost 3 *Crimson Empire III: Empire Lost 4 *Crimson Empire III: Empire Lost 5 *Crimson Empire III: Empire Lost 6 *Star Wars Handbook 2: Crimson Empire *Star Wars: The Comics Companion *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:D'Asta family Category:Females Category:Humans Category:Interim Ruling Council members