21355
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Dorlo
Dorlo
4053

Dorlo was a planet located in the Atravis sector of the Outer Rim Territories and was controlled by the Galactic Empire. The surface of Dorlo was initially considered "beautiful" by its colonists, with warm days, fertile valleys with farms, Braal fields and rivers, and snowy mountains. Its soil was rich in ore and supplied the Empire's production of weapons. During the SoroSuub occupation, many of these locations were dug into pits.Dark Forces: Rebel Agent In ancient times, before the time of the Galactic Empire, an unknown ancient culture, that had developed architecture and Writing had left some traces on the planet. They had built long walls, covered with written characters, which were later buried under the ground. Dorlo was settled by colonists about four generations before the Galactic Civil War. SoroSuub Corporation sent reconnaissance droid to investigate its properties. Three local months later, Corporate starliner arrived, bought cheaply the farms, and sent the settlers to a desert world at the borders with the Outer Rim. Some farmers attempted to protect their property by resisting; thirty-six were killed, and crudely made markers were put near a road intersection to mark that spot. Freighters and shuttles landed ten thousand mining machines; located and operating by geolocation satellites, they produced fifty tons of ore each local day, which they loaded to the freighters. While looking for resources, the SoroSuub mining droids uncovered a three-mile long wall, build ages ago by Dorlo's ancient inhabitants. Although the company wasn't much interested to preserve the ruin, they thought that the writing covering the effigy would provide more resources, and hired Professor Nij Por Ral. Qu Rahn, who was after the Valley of the Jedi led some New Republic allies to the planet in order to find the Professor and persuade him join them to his quest. The linguist reluctantly agreed to leave without the company's permission, knowing that his work would be sacrificed. With Duno Dree, Cee Norley and Rolanda Gron they escaped Imperial forces on a skimmer; the Seven Dark Jedi were sent to capture them by Jerec and prevented their escape. *Dark Forces: Rebel Agent *Star Wars: Jedi Knight: Dark Forces II *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Atravis sector locations Category:Galactic Empire planets Category:Planets in the Outer Rim Territories Category:Planets in the Western Reaches Category:Terrestrial planets