21501
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Daimlo
Daimlo
8056

|lifespan= |origin=DaimlaStar Wars: Racer Revenge: Prima's Official Strategy Guide |habitat= |diet= |language=Daimli }} The Daimlos were a sentient humanoid species native to the Outer Rim Territories planet Daimla. They were short, thick, and heavily built, and their large heads were equipped with skullplates and horns. "Scorch" Zanales was a Daimlo who had distinguished himself in the sport of Podracing during the final years of the Galactic Republic. Daimlos were a powerfully built humanoid species with stout girth and large heads. The heavily plated head of a Daimlo featured two green-gray horns, a muzzle with two rows of teeth, and a pair of red eyes. The gray-skinned body of a Daimlo was comparatively short and stocky, with two arms ending in four-fingered hands, and was supported by two reverse-jointed legs ending in four-toed, hoof-like feet. Daimlos also possessed tails. A year-long Daimlo coming-of-age ritual on Daimla involved using one's skullplate and horns to knock opponents unconscious. While Daimli was considered the primary language of the Daimlos, at least one Daimlo, Zanales, spoke Huttese. He wore clothes featuring a purple breastplate, tan sleeves, and red ankle wraps, as well as long, black fringes around the waist. thumb|right|180px|"Scorch" Zanales pilots his Banshee-11 Podracer. Daimlos originated from the temperate world of Daimla, in the Kallea sector of the Outer Rim Territories. &mdash; Based on corresponding data for Daimla system Zanales, also known as "Scorch," was a Daimlo male who came to be regarded as a hero on his native Daimla after he successfully defeated his peers in his species' coming-of-age ritual. The reputation that Zanales gained from this feat carried over into his professional Podracing career in the final years of the Galactic Republic.Star Wars: Racer Revenge, which includes the appearances of Banshee-11 and the Hutt Championships, takes place eight years after the events of Star Wars: Episode I The Phantom Menace, which The New Essential Chronology dates to 32 BBY. Therefore, the events of Star Wars: Racer Revenge must take place in 24 BBY, which predates the fall of the Galactic Republic by five years, according to The New Essential Chronology. The Daimlo Zanales competed in the Galactic Games Podracing competition on theJedi Quest: The Dangerous Games Mid Rim &mdash; Based on corresponding data for Euceron system world of Euceron in 27 BBYThe Essential Reader's Companion dates the events of Jedi Quest: The Dangerous Games, which includes the appearance of Zanales, to 27 BBY. and in the Outer Rim Territories&ndash;wide Hutt Championships in 24 BBY. Zanales became a crowd favorite and loved putting on a good show. He was flamboyant, unpredictable, and knew all about beating up opponents, a holdover from coming out on top during the rituals on his homeworld. By 24 BBY, the company known as Daimlo Engineering produced the Banshee-11, a model of Podracer. Zanales flew one during the Hutt Championships. thumb|right|180px|Concept art for the Daimlo species The Daimlo species first appeared in the 2002 LucasArts video game Star Wars: Racer Revenge and was named in the accompanying strategy guide, written by Mario De Govia and Damien Waples. Concept art for Racer Revenge shows the species with brown fur, bright-purple eyes, and a slightly different body shape, with longer legs and a less-defined muzzle. The 2008 reference book The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia misspells the singular form of the species as "Daimlos." *Jedi Quest: The Dangerous Games *Jedi Quest: The Dangerous Games abridged audiobook *Star Wars: Racer Revenge *Star Wars: Racer Revenge: Prima's Official Strategy Guide Category:Kallea sector sentient species