21878
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Jastro_III
Jastro III
4850

Jastro III was a Core Worlds planet that was under the administration of a governor of the Galactic Empire during the Galactic Civil War. A Rebel Alliance underground group operated on the planet, and the governor's daughter, who was in love with the Rebel Selas Ferr, put the group in contact with "Alexan," a mysterious, influential individual who was secretly the governor himself in disguise. At one point, Alexan had Ferr's group take the governor's daughter away with them while helping them rescue two of their captured members. Alexan was subsequently killed in a firefight with Imperial troopers, leading to Ferr and his companions learning his true identity. Jastro III was a terrestrial planet that occupied the third orbital position in the Jastro system, a part of the Arrowhead, or the Slice portion of the Core Worlds. During the Galactic Civil War between the Galactic Empire and the Rebel Alliance, Jastro III was overseen by a planetary governor who had a daughter, with many personnel of the Imperial CompForce organization being present on the planet. An Alliance underground group also operated there, with Selas Ferr&mdash;who was the lover of the governor's daughter&mdash;counting among its members. The woman, being unable to help Ferr due to the heavy Imperial presence, instead put him and his group into contact with a mysterious individual known as "Alexan," who held great influence in the governor's hierarchy&mdash;and was secretly the governor himself in disguise. At one point, Ferr's group carried out an abortive sabotage operation, in the course of which two of the organization's men were captured. Ferr contacted Alexan for assistance, to which the secretive individual agreed on the condition that the resistance take the governor's daughter away with them along with their captured members. Alexan eventually delivered both the men and the woman to Ferr; however, Imperial troopers arrived before the hand-over was completed, leading to the outbreak of an intense firefight. During the skirmish, Alexan was mortally wounded, and after Ferr and his companions reached safety, they discovered his true identity. Jastro III was mentioned in the 1995 sourcebook Heroes & Rogues, authored by Rick Stuart and Paul Sudlow and published for use with West End Games' Star Wars: The Roleplaying Game. In the book, the planet is mentioned in an example situation that served to illustrate the role influential but often-unavailable contacts may play in developing the backstory of the player characters. This article assumes the scenario plays out as described. The 2009 reference book The Essential Atlas placed the Jastro system, and therefore Jastro III, in grid square M-10. *Heroes & Rogues *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Galactic Empire planets Category:Planets in the Arrowhead Category:Planets in the Core Worlds Category:Terrestrial planets