21811
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Priapulin
Priapulin
5767

Priapulins were a sapient species from the planet Pria, one of the Core Worlds. The Priapulin species were sentient gastropods resembling large worms with five knobby notochords arranged around their tubular length. When fully extended flat, they measured at four meters in length, however preferred the configuration of an upright S shape. They had three pairs of eyes, and the underside of their bodies were covered in thick bristles. The spiny appendages along the edges of their bodies were specialized for a number of purposes, being hooked, thorny, or spatulate. Used in conjunction, these appendages were used as a form of locomotion or could be used as hands and fingers for grasping tools or wielding weapons. thumb|left|250px|A group of Priapulins. Native to the ocean planet Pria, the Priapulin maintained a civilization dedicated to peace and were noted as having avoided many conflicts for centuries. While the species dominated the food-chain on Pria, they managed to cultivate a symbiotic relationship with the other sentients on the planet, including the Crast species. In exchange for carrying and raising their offspring, the Crast would offer themselves up as food for Priapulins, considering it a great honor to be chosen for consumption.Rogue Planet Known for their strong sense of humor, Priapulins adhered to a strict code of loyalty and honor. While Priap was their native language, Priapulins spoke Basic in a smooth whisper. Priapulins measured distance in "salt pans" (nine of which was equal to eleven kilometers) and time in "tidal hours" (one of which equaled ten hours). Inhabiting a planet deep within space controlled by the Galactic Republic since its founding, the Priapulin did not seem to play an active role in influencing galactic history, and no records indicate that the planet hosted any battles during the constant threats which threatened the Republic over the millennia.The Essential Atlas While not widely spotted far from their homeworld, some Priapulin found employ as smugglers and common laborers. One such Priapulin was Charza Kwinn, a pilot who was often employed by the Jedi Order to transport Jedi Knights from the Coruscant Jedi Temple to planet throughout the Galactic Republic on missions. During the early years of the Separatist Crisis, Kwinn transported Jedi Obi-Wan Kenobi and Anakin Skywalker to Zonama Sekot as the two searched for the missing Jedi Vergere. Force-sensitive Priapulins were known to exist, with at least one serving in the ranks of the Jedi Order long before the New Sith Wars. Jedi Master Skwelli was highly proficient in the art of lightsaber combat and was noted for wielding six lightsabers simultaneously with recordings of his prowess memorialized within ancient Jedi holocrons.The Jedi Path: A Manual for Students of the Force Priapulida are a group of real-world worms. *Rogue Planet *The New Jedi Order: Traitor *The Essential Guide to Alien Species *Coruscant and the Core Worlds *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia *The Jedi Path: A Manual for Students of the Force *Strongholds of Resistance Category:Aquatic sentient species Category:Core Worlds sentient species Category:Gastropod sentient species