22189
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Plavin_6
Plavin 6
5989

Plavin 6 was a Colonies jungle world whose native inhabitants preferred to wear loose-fitting clothing. It was the homeworld of the Humans Nashiak Llalik and Saren Llalik. Nashiak eventually became a renowned engineer and built a large mansion on Plavin 6, where he stored two incomplete prototypes of the Sunder 9 power armor suit. At some point, a number of smugglers and thieves set up residence on the world in order to locate Nashiak. Plavin 6 was a humid jungle world that occupied the sixth orbital position in the Plavin system of the Colonies. thumb|right|300px|Doctor Nashiak Llalik hailed from Plavin 6 and maintained a large mansion there. Plavin 6 was the homeworld of HumansCracken's Rebel Operatives Nashiak Llalik and Saren Llalik, who were respectively the second son and daughter of the doctors Nash and Loran Llalik. While they were still children, Nashiak would read stories about historical armor-donning military organizations and tell his family, including Saren&mdash;who was born around 32 BBYCracken's Rebel Operatives, which establishes Saren Llalik to be thirty-two years old, is set during the time shortly after the Battle of Yavin, therefore placing her birth around 32 BBY per The New Essential Chronology.&mdash;about the armor that their members wore. At some point, Nashiak attended and graduated from the Chandrilan Academy of Sciences on the Core Worlds planet Chandrila.Strongholds of Resistance Doctor Nashiak Llalik became a galaxy-renowned engineer affiliated with the Galactic Empire, whereas his sister and older brother both became members of the Rebel Alliance. Hoping to someday retire to a quiet life on Plavin 6, Llalik used his wealth to build a large mansion there. At the mansion, he stored two incomplete prototypes of the Sunder 9 power armor suit that he had been designing before being forced to put off his work. On the date 39:8:4:90, the weapons collector known as "Credman" noted in a comment in the illegal database Gundark's Gear Datalog that they were familiar with several smugglers and thieves who had set up temporary residence on Plavin 6 while unsuccessfully attempting to locate Llalik. Native inhabitants of Plavin 6 mostly preferred to wear loose-fitting clothing. Doctor Nashiak Llalik, a native of Plavin 6, loved his homeworld. A number of smugglers and thieves also resided there while searching for Llalik. Plavin 6 was the site of a large mansion owned by the engineer Doctor Nashiak Llalik. There, in a securi-vault, he stored a pair of prototype Sunder 9 power armor suits that were guarded by a personal security detachment. Plavin 6 was first mentioned in Alliance Intelligence Reports, a 1995 sourcebook for West End Games' Star Wars: The Roleplaying Game. The 2009 reference book The Essential Atlas subsequently placed the Plavin system, and therefore the world itself, in grid square L-9. *Alliance Intelligence Reports *Gundark's Fantastic Technology: Personal Gear Category:Jungle planets Category:Planets in the Colonies