22316
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/E4_baron_droid
E4 baron droid
6227

A step up from the standard B1-series battle droid, E4 baron droids were battle droids used by the Trade Federation. Baktoid Combat Automata developed the experimental baron droid as an all-purpose security unit. The success of the E4 baron led the Trade Federation to commission Baktoid to refine the model for mass production, resulting in the B2-series super battle droid. The E4 baron droid were hulking droids, capable of impressive feats of strength. Their plating was made of a heavy metal known as Arcetron. It could track an opponent with motion, heat, energy, and sonic detectors. Visual stimuli were processed through the droid's single photoreceptor, which could also produce a blinding spotlight to identify and track its targets. They were equipped with two dual repeating blaster cannons mounted on their arms. They could also function for extended periods without a direct connection to a Central Control Computer. Though more formidable than their predecessors, they were not without flaws. The baron droid lacked personal energy shields, allowing them to be quickly disabled with multiple hits from a blaster rifle, or a well-aimed lightsaber slash. In addition, their movement was heavy and slow. thumb|left|400px|Another type of "baron droid" in service to the Trade Federation Obi-Wan Kenobi encountered such droids during his investigation of the Black Heth criminal gang on Coruscant. The local Naboo fighters had been fighting them in swamps and they learnt to avoid them by watching for their signature spotlights. There was another type of baron battle droid that was known by that designation; it too was used by the Trade Federation.Star Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds Nute Gunray planned to use a pair of E4 baron droids as his personal assassin corps, but they were called up for use in the Battle of Naboo instead. E4s patrolled the city of Theed during the invasion. Although the Trade Federation Droid Army was defeated, the success of the baron droid led to a refinement of the design and the production of the B2 super battle droids as a heavy infantry unit for the Separatist Droid Army.The Essential Guide to Warfare Many of the droids remained on Naboo, where they were eventually hunted down by soldiers of the Royal Naboo Security Forces. Eventually, a squad of baron droids took over the planet of Arzid, where they ruled by "the law of the blaster" in 16 ABY. thumb|left|150px|The Star Wars: Obi-Wan depiction of an E4 baron droid The baron droids encountered in the 2001 video game Star Wars: Obi-Wan are noticeably different from the illustration in The New Essential Guide to Droids, most notably the appearance of the outer plating, as well as the one from the game being bulkier. *Star Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds *Star Wars: Obi-Wan *Star Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds: Clone Campaigns *The Art of Star Wars Episode I: The Phantom Menace *Star Wars: Obi-Wan: Prima's Official Strategy Guide *The New Essential Guide to Droids *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia *The Essential Guide to Warfare Category:B-series battle droid models Category:Baktoid Combat Automata products Category:Droid models of the Trade Federation