22574
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Gun_of_Command
Gun of Command
3928

The Gun of Command was a high-tech weapon from the planet Charubah in the Hapes Cluster. thumb|left|250px|A profile view of the Gun of Command The gun was more dangerous than almost any other weapon because it made victims unable to distinguish between their own thoughts and the enemy's, allowing the Hapans to control them. The guns worked by releasing an electromagnetic wave field which disabled the victim's thought processes. Once affected, the victim would follow any simple command given, even blatantly suicidal ones. In fact, the Gun of Command was used as a form of execution, where the condemned male (no females were executed on Hapes under any circumstances) would be shot with the weapon, then handed a blaster and ordered to take his own life. A rifle version developed by Royal Armaments Guild of Charubah turned up on Kabal around 0 ABY, in the possession of Cecil Noone, who had stolen the weapon and was trying to sell it to the Krish hunter Tyro Viveca. Cecil claimed that the rifle was a one-of-a-kind prototype, packing twice the "persuasive potency" of the pistol version, and capable of affecting a Human for about an hour, an Ugnaught for two or three, and a Houk for forty minutes. thumb|right|250px|The Hapan Gun of Command The rulers of the Hapes Cluster presented Princess Leia Organa with 63 treasures from their worlds, including the Gun of Command. Han Solo used the gun to force Leia to run away with him to the planet of Dathomir, then removed the circuitry on the barrel, rendering it useless to Leia when she thought to use it against him once she realized what he had done. Another Gun of Command was used on Luke Skywalker by three Hapans, when he attempted to interfere in their interrogation of Drackmarian warlord, Omogg, but Luke used the Force to neutralize its effect, before telekinetically relieving them of it. *The Courtship of Princess Leia *The New Jedi Order: Agents of Chaos II: Jedi Eclipse *Cracken's Threat Dossier *Star Wars Encyclopedia *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia *Galaxy of Intrigue Category:Electrical weaponry Category:Hapes Consortium projects and operations Category:Pistols Category:Royal Armaments Guild of Charubah products