22699
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Dreaming_River_Clan
Dreaming River Clan
9413

|subgroup= |headquarters= |locations=A river valley, Dathomir |formed= |founded= |fragmented= |reorganized= |dissolved= |restored= |affiliation= }} The Dreaming River Clan was a clan of Dathomiri witches who lived on the planet Dathomir during the time of the New Republic. Around 12 ABY, Dathomir was occupied by the Imperial Remnant, a government opposed to the Republic. The Imperials entered into a pact with Nightsisters, a sect of dark side Dathomiri witches, and the combined Imperial and Nightsister forces imprisoned the majority of the Dreaming River Clan. The captive Force witches were subsequently liberated from Imperial internment by a group of Jedi Knights. The Dreaming River Clan was a tribe of Force-using Dathomiri witches that lived on the planet Dathomir, in the Quelii sector.The Essential Atlas The clan dwelled at an encampment in an isolated Dathomir river valley and during the time of the New Republic, the witch Astrinol Hja acted as their leader. The Dreaming River witches had a matriarchal society and an aversion to being led by men, though they were otherwise willing to form alliances with males. Circa 12 ABY, Dathomir was occupied by the forces of the Imperial Remnant, a galactic government opposed to the New Republic. To assist their occupation, the Imperials entered into an alliance with the Nightsisters, a sect of dark side Dathomiri witches that opposed the planet's other witch clans. As a gesture of good faith to the Nightsisters, the Imperials rounded up New Republic personnel on the world and members the Singing Mountain Clan, a leading group of Dathomiri witches. The Dreaming River Clan opposed the occupation and formed somewhat of an underground resistance movement to combat the Imperial presence on Dathomir. thumb|left|180px|Dathomir, the world on which the Dreaming River Clan resided The Dreaming River Clan eventually caught the attention of the Imperial invaders and a combined force of Imperial troops and rancor-mounted Nightsisters descended upon the clan's encampment. The majority of the Dreaming River Force witches, including Astrinol Hja, were subsequently arrested. The former Imperial Guardsman Kir Kanos suspected that the captured witches would be compelled to join the Nightsisters and would be fed to the Nightsisters' rancors if they refused. Kir Kanos and group of Jedi Knights&mdash;In Nightsaber, the player characters roleplay as Jedi agents and their identities are dependent on the choices of the players. The entry in The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia for Astrinol Hja refers to the individuals who rescued her as "Jedi Knights." This article therefore assumes that the actions attributed to the player characters in Nightsaber were completed by a group of Jedi Knights. Force-using defenders of peace and justice&mdash;arrived at the Dreaming River clans' encampment amid the Imperial assault. The Jedi Knights had become stranded on Dathomir and Kanos sought to introduce them to the Dreaming River Clan to seek the witches' assistance in repairing the Knights' starship so that the Jedi could leave the world while evading the Imperials. The Jedi Knights saved several Dreaming River Clan witches from the Nightsisters and Imperial forces. The rescued Force witches agreed to an alliance with the Jedi and suggested that they send a request for support to Teneniel Djo, a witch of the Singing Mountain Clan who was married to Isolder, a prince of the powerful Hapes Consortium. The remaining Dreaming River witches were escorted to an Imperial prison facility, where they were interred under guard by Nightsisters and Imperial stormtroopers. With assistance from the rescued witches, the Jedi Knights infiltrated an Imperial-held communications center and sent a transmission to the Hapes Consortium asking for help. The Jedi Knights and Force witches also assaulted the Imperial prison facility where the other Dreaming River witches had been taken and defeated the guards. The captive witches, including Astrinol Hja, were then liberated from Imperial imprisonment. The Dreaming River Clan was created by J.D. Wiker and appeared in Nightsaber, a Wizards of the Coast Star Wars Legends roleplaying which was published on Wizards.com in 2003. The clan was later mentioned in the 2008 compendium The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia, in the entry for Astrinol Hja. In Nightsaber, the players roleplay as the Jedi agents stranded on Dathomir and various different outcomes are possible depending on the actions and decisions of the players. During the Imperial and Nightsister attack on the Dreaming River Clan encampment, it is possible for the player characters to rescue a few Dreaming River witches who are isolated from the main group. The witches that they save can then enter an alliance with the player characters and assist them with attacking the communications center and Imperial prison. If the player characters decided to focus on tackling other foes rather than attacking the Imperial prison themselves, their Force witch allies volunteer to raid the prison and rescue their sisters. The witches then sustain heavy casualties in the attack but succeed at freeing most of the Dream River Clan captives. The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia confirms that the Jedi rescue Astrinol Hja, indicating the player characters' involvement in the attack to be the official outcome within Star Wars Legends continuity. The name of the clan is spelled differently in The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia than to in Nightsaber; in Nightsaber they are referred to as the "Dreaming River clan" whereas in The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia their name is spelled "Dreaming River Clan." This article uses the latter capitalization, because The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia is the most recently published of the two sources. Category:Dathomiri Witch clans