22897
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Alter_Environment
Alter Environment
4461

Alter Environment was a Force power that involved various techniques for manipulating nature, enabling the creation of phenomena such as Force whirlwinds or fog that could be used to attack or to shield the user from opponents. Alter Environment could manipulate temperatures, creating sub-zero temperatures in seconds, or blistering heat that could burn. With this ability, a user could generate electrical discharges over broad expanses of ground, vacate areas of air, or increase the pressure of the air to burst eardrums. The power allowed a Force user to form small earthquakes and fissures or gather the moisture in the air to bring about flash floods. Moreover, Alter Environment could influence existing natural occurrences. For instance, a thunderstorm could be manipulated to unleash a burst of lightning, or rain clouds to start up torrential rains or hail. Windswept seas could be coaxed to rear up in massive waves or form whirlpools. This ability utilized the innate Force energy, or life force, of the object being manipulated instead of the Force energy of the user. In other words, someone using this power would use a small amount of his own power to harness the innate power already present. Novices could sense and feel the environment while masters of this ability could control the elements at will. This could lead to the formation of killer waves and lightning storms with minimum effort and concentration, and depending on the amount of energy expended, little stamina. A greater knowledge in physics gave the user more precise control and a larger range of methods of this power, and shortened the time it took to enact. However, a being would need to monitor the effects in order to keep them from spreading to disastrous consequences. Streen and the Sith Emperor were notable adepts of these talents. The Sith Emperor used this ability to corrupt the environment of the planet Dromund Kaas. Darth Krayt could control the weather of an entire planet while in stasis.Riptide *Tales of the Jedi – The Fall of the Sith Empire 4 *Star Wars: The Old Republic *Darth Bane: Path of Destruction *Jedi vs. Sith 4 *Darth Plagueis *Yoda: Dark Rendezvous *The Last of the Jedi: The Desperate Mission *Star Wars: The Force Unleashed II *The Courtship of Princess Leia *Dark Empire II 3 *I, Jedi *I, Jedi abridged audiobook *Jedi Academy: Leviathan 3 *The New Jedi Order: Traitor *The New Jedi Order: Traitor abridged audiobook *Legacy of the Force: Betrayal *Legacy of the Force: Invincible *Riptide *Fate of the Jedi: Allies *The Jedi Path: A Manual for Students of the Force Category:Alter powers