22870
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Combined_Bothan_Clans
Combined Bothan Clans
5636

The Bothan Council, known also as the Combined Bothan Clans, was the legislature of the Bothan species that ruled Bothawui and controlled all the the Bothan sector. The offices of the heads of the Combined Clans were housed in the Combined Clans Center Building near Merchant's Square in Drev'starn. It was composed of members of 608 registered clans, with other clans petitioning for recognition membership. A majority vote would determine recognition of those new clans (meaning that relations and diplomacy played a significant role for the result).Shadows of the Empire Planets Guide Of those registered clans, ruling chiefs voted for the 21 members of the Council (18 representing the nation-states of the homeworld, and 3 more representing the colonies). In turn, those 21 members voted for the Council Chief among them; each of the 21 Council members also assigned leaders of the other 587 Clans to positions around the ministries and the government; past support and alliances played a role in those assignments. The Council Chief held the power of casting the deciding vote on stalemated issues. The Chief also had the capacity of the First Secretary, and served for one year. A member had to be a true practictioner of the Bothan Way to reach their position and maintain it, and represent the interests of their clan leader; otherwise their constituents might impeach and replace them. This resulted not only to political complications and delays, but to personal loss of power and prestige, and public shame. The Council had legislative control over all of Bothan Space. It had Allied Region status within the Galactic Republic. The Council also had the authority to declare a state of ar'krai. During the Galactic Civil War, Savielk Trey'dra led the Bothan Council. They assumed control over most of the other organs of the Bothan government, with only the Bothan Diplomatic Corps remaining independent. Although the Galactic Empire did not wish to subjugate Bothawui, Imperial entities attempted to control the Council's economic policies. After the Galactic Civil War, it was officially reorganised and expanded into a government outright, and renamed the Combined Clans, but many continued to refer to it as the Bothan Council. *Specter of the Past *Specter of the Past abridged audiobook *Vision of the Future *Vision of the Future abridged audiobook *The New Jedi Order: Destiny's Way *The New Jedi Order: Destiny's Way abridged audiobook *Shadows of the Empire Sourcebook *Shadows of the Empire Planets Guide *Alien Encounters *The Essential Guide to Alien Species *Star Wars Galaxies: An Empire Divided: Prima's Official Strategy Guide *Star Wars Galaxies: Jump to Lightspeed: Prima Official Game Guide *Star Wars Galaxies: The Total Experience: Prima Official Game Guide *Star Wars Galaxies: The Complete Guide: Prima Official Game Guide *The New Essential Guide to Alien Species *Star Wars Roleplaying Game Saga Edition Core Rulebook *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia *The Essential Atlas *Star Wars: Edge of the Empire Core Rulebook *Star Wars: Age of Rebellion Core Rulebook Council Category:Galactic Empire-aligned governments Category:Galactic Republic-aligned governments Category:Legislatures Category:New Republic-aligned governments Category:Organizations of Bothawui