22905
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Redd_Wessel
Redd Wessel
4501

Redd Wessel was a Human male who served as an Imperial Army general under Carnor Jax of the Crimson Empire. Redd Wessel was the son of Marcellin Wessel, one of the first Moffs of the Galactic Empire. From a young age, he dreamed of serving in the Imperial Navy. However, upon attending the Imperial Academy, he was determined to be better suited as an Imperial Army officer.Star Wars Handbook 2: Crimson Empire Serving as a soldier for Imperial ground-based operations, Wessel came to the attention of his superiors during the Empire's cleansing of Yinchorr. He was steadily promoted through the ranks before reaching the rank of general thanks to his by-the-book approach to strategy and command. After failing to find ways to advance his career further, Wessel seized an opportunity to do so by siding with Carnor Jax and the members of the Imperial Ruling Council, and helping them with sabotaging the clone bodies of Emperor Palpatine. After Palpatine's demise, Wessel helped Jax take control of the Ruling Council and declare himself ruler. Wessel was subsequently named as Jax's right-hand man, tasked with directing the Empire's military operations. thumb|left|250px|Wessel's final moments. It was not long before Jax realized that Wessel lacked the vision that Jax demanded of his high-ranking officers, and Wessel endured constant criticism from the self-declared Emperor as a result. General Redd Wessel was killed aboard the Imperial Star Destroyer Emperor's Revenge when a Scimitar assault bomber, bomb-rigged by Jax's nemesis Kir Kanos, was brought aboard, where it exploded, killing everyone aboard and gutting the greater part of the ship. General Wessel was played by David Anthony Brinkley for the audio drama version of Crimson Empire. *Crimson Empire audio drama *Crimson Empire 0 *Crimson Empire 1 *Crimson Empire 2 *Crimson Empire 3 *Crimson Empire 4 *Crimson Empire 5 *Star Wars Handbook 2: Crimson Empire *Star Wars: The Comics Companion *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Humans Category:Imperial Army generals of the Galactic Empire Category:Imperial Supreme Commanders Category:Interim Ruling Council members Category:Males