23188
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Dunari
Dunari
4334

Dunari was a Human male entrepreneur who was an old friend of Tomaas Azzameen and the founder and owner of Dunari's Rest Casino during the Galactic Civil War. He was also the leader of a powerful and large trading coalition based in the Outer Rim Territories, mainly the Mayagil sector. A smuggler in his younger days and a friend of the Azzameen family, it was known that Dunari and Tomaas used to make Kessel Runs with Imperials in hot pursuit. He would recall that what they both lacked in finesse they made up with luck. He had his own Muurian transport called Deadman's Hand. In 3 ABY the Galactic Empire destroyed the Rebels' main supply center on Gal Milnor late in the war, as result the Rebel Alliance was in dire need of resources and supplies and called on Dunari and his coalition to provide them, a call he accepted. After Dunari arrived to the meeting in his his personal SoroSuub Personal Luxury Yacht 3000 Raw Deal to meet the Rebel Alliance&mdash;who had sent a Muurian transport Saloon&mdash;he negotiated a deal for his trading coalition to secretly supply the Rebels for their attack on the Second Death Star at Endor. But he didn't expect the Hurrim, led by Golov Nakhym, to betray them at the Nezni system by firing on innocent civilians. Dunari then removed the Hurrim from his coalition and placed bounties on their heads. He also helped Ace Azzameen to rescue his brother, Emon Azzameen, who was captured by the Imperials and was being held at Quesna Base. Soon Dunari's casino was attacked by Imperials tipped of by the Hurrim. But the attack was repelled and Dunari was able to get the guests and the personnel, along with Emon out of the casino and into safety. Fed up with the Hurrim, the Alliance and Dunari's forces launched a full-scale assault on the Hurrim's nearby asteroid base, rescuing Dunari's men and destroying the station, while capturing the notorious Golov Nakhym. During the battle, Admiral Garreth Holtz and the Corrupter (Imperial-class) were destroyed. With the Hurrim defeated and the local Imperials in disarray, Dunari's supply operation for the Alliance was able to continue unimpeded and played a critical role in insuring the Rebels had the resources they needed for their successful attack on the Empire's new Death Star. Shortly before the battle, he also helped get Emon, Ace and Aeron out of an Imperial ambush at Kessel Station after Antan, their uncle, had betrayed them. *Star Wars: X-Wing Alliance *Star Wars: X-Wing Alliance: Prima's Official Strategy Guide *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Alliance to Restore the Republic members Category:Business owners and executives Category:Humans Category:Males Category:Smugglers