23429
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Krak%27jya
Krak'jya
6501

The krak'jya, also spelled krakjya, was a feline predator native to Bothawui that got its name from the loud bellowing growl it made. The predator had keen sense of smell and hearing, had strong muscles and was sleek in movement. Its claws were long and retractable, hard and strong, ideal for killing and ripping flesh and bone. Its fur was thick, either striped or spotted, with colors that matched its terrain. The fur became a prized trophy. The creature's powerful back muscles allowed it to climb, jump leap large distances and pin prey several times its own weight. There is no significal sexual dimorphism among the species, with males being slightly bigger than females. thumb|left|Krak'jya hunt in pairs on [[Bothawui/Legends|Bothawui.]] The krak'jya dominated the fauna of Bothawui, and its roar (which gave it its name) was loud and paralyzed other creatures by fear.Shadows of the Empire Planets Guide It was found in various habitats around the planets, and each tribe or race had fur colors that allowed it to camouflage. Added to its stealth was its exceptional intelligence, as it could avoid traps and outsmart hunting parties of sentients. Krak'jyas were monogamous and paired only once in life. Each litter had up to four young, and a pair could give birth around five times during its lifetime. A young stayed with their parents, until they matured fully within three years when the parents forced them out of the territory, thenceforth breaking any familial bonds. Their life expectancy was fifty years. Krak'jyas were territorial and hunted with their mate, usually with the male charging while the female waited in the opposite side of the prey. They fiercely protected their grounds from other individuals (even if it was former family members) or other species. hunter or expedition groups who entered their territory were in grave danger, and often a krak'jya would stalk them for hours before ambushing each member one by one. Even when outnumbered and surrounded a single krak'jya would rely on its brute strength. Stinkweed often confused the krak'jya's sense of smell, and hunters sometimes camouflaged by hiding in it. It was distantly related to the skar'kla, another Bothawui predator, while the krak'jya was found in lower elevations and developed greater strength. During the era of the Cold War and the Galactic War, krak'jyas could be found on planets such as Rishi, and the Massassi warriors of the moon Yavin 4 were well aware of the creatures' savagery. Many hunting and expedition groups were massacred by krak'jyas after invading their territory; survivors who witnessed the onslaught, refused to hunt this animal again. Its fur was valued as a status symbol for those who managed to kill a krak'jya. Modern weaponry turned the tables, and the hunt for krak'jya fur caused thousands of deaths, leading the extermination of the species. As a result, skar'klas started descending from the higher elevations and coming closer to the civilized areas. By the Galactic Civil War the Bothans regulated their protection and kept them in zoos and private collections. Killing a krak'jya was punishable by death. Hunting was allowed only for capture with non-lethal weapons, and with the company of a licensed guide for one week; the license costed 10,000 credits whereas the penalty for hunting without one was 250,000 and up to five years in a hard labor camp. Krak'jya caretakers would pay 150,000 credits for a captured pair of krak'jyas. The krak'jya received a brief mention in the Star Wars: Empire at War: Forces of Corruption Expansion: Prima Official Game Guide, which misspelled their name as "kra'jya". *Star Wars: The Old Republic Cartel Market *Star Wars: The Old Republic: Shadow of Revan *Star Wars: The Old Republic: Legacy of the Sith *Shadows of the Empire Planets Guide *The Essential Guide to Planets and Moons *Star Wars: Empire at War: Prima Official Game Guide *Star Wars: Empire at War: Forces of Corruption Expansion: Prima Official Game Guide Category:Creatures of Bothawui Category:Creatures of Rishi Category:Creatures of Yavin 4 Category:Felines Category:Predatory creatures Category:Species of undefined sentience