23574
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Anwis_Eddicus
Anwis Eddicus
5254

|masters= |apprentices= }} Anwis Eddicus was a Supreme Chancellor of the Galactic Republic around 700 BBY. states that Galactic Republic Supreme Chancellor Anwis Eddicus was instrumental in ending the Death Seed plague. The plague took place around seven centuries prior to the Battle of Yavin according to Planet of Twilight, which equates to around 700 BBY in the calendar system present in The New Essential Chronology. At this time, the Death Seed plague struck the galaxy, killing millions of beings. The outbreak ended when the parasitic drochs responsible for the plague were quarantined on the planet Nam Chorios, with Eddicus playing a role in ending the pandemic. Eddicus was honored on occasion during the final years of the Republic. Kuat Systems Engineering's Eddicus-class planetary shuttle, developed in the decades before the Clone Wars, was named for the celebrated Chancellor. In 22 BBY, is set on the date 13:3:28, which corresponds to 22 BBY according to the reasoning here. Biscuit Baron, a chain of restaurants owned by the Tagge Company, launched a month-long promotion known as "Heroes of the Republic" to highlight some of the Republic's more notable historical figures; holocubes depicting these beings were included in bundles of Biscuit Baron's QuickSnack and QuickSnackLite foods. Eddicus was among those honored by the campaign, which was promoted in an edition of HoloNet News CoCo District Edition by the company's CEO Roridan Temquill. Anwis Eddicus was first mentioned in "Biscuit Baron to Celebrate "Heroes of the Republic," an article written by Pablo Hidalgo and Paul Ens and published in HoloNet News Vol. 531 #49 on the HoloNet News website on March 28, 2002. Eddicus's story was later expanded on in James McFadden's winning entry for What's The Story?&mdash;a feature that allowed Star Wars Hyperspace fan club members to submit backstory entries&mdash;for publication in the StarWars.com Databank. *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Individuals of unspecified gender Category:Individuals of unspecified species Category:Individuals with unspecified pronouns Category:Supreme Chancellors