23766
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Admiral_Ackbar_(Victory-class)
Admiral Ackbar (Victory-class)
4612

Admiral Ackbar was a Victory-class Star Destroyer that served as the flagship of Admiral Nek Bwua'tu of the Galactic Alliance Defense Force following the Yuuzhan Vong War. Admiral Ackbar, named in memory of the deceased Mon Calamari Admiral, was one of the new generation of Victory-class Star Destroyers commissioned by the Galactic Alliance to aid in the fight against pirate forces. Admiral Ackbar was known as a famous pirate hunter, and its crew was said to feel privileged to serve under Admiral Bwua'tu. The ship's Tactical Salon contained a larmalstone bust of Ackbar. These updated Victory-class Star Destroyers were fitted with a turret on the upper hull, almost as large as the bridge itself. Mounted inside each was one of the asteroid-tug tractor beams sold to the Defense Force by Lando Calrissian. Admiral Ackbar participated in the blockade of the Murgo Choke during the Dark Nest crisis. The Star Destroyer was later commandeered by UnuThul and Alema Rar's forces during the Battle of the Murgo Choke in the beginning of the Swarm War. This ship would later become a part of the Killik fleet during the war. Because of its presence in the Killik fleet, the Chiss assumed that the Galactic Alliance had sided with the Killiks. During the Battle of Tenupe, near the end of the war, Luke Skywalker and a squad of YVH 5 Bugcruncher war droids, managed to recapture the vessel. During the Second Galactic Civil War the Ackbar was once again under the command of Admiral Bwua'tu, and was blockading Corellia with other Galactic Alliance fleet elements. When Corellia attempted to bring the Hapes Consortium onto their side by means of an armed coup, Bwua'tu took the Ackbar along with his other forces to Hapes in order to reinforce the Queen Mother's fleet. *Dark Nest II: The Unseen Queen *Dark Nest III: The Swarm War *Legacy of the Force: Tempest *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Captured starships Category:Flagships Category:Starships of the Galactic Alliance Category:Victory-class Star Destroyers