23968
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Kyp%27s_Dozen
Kyp's Dozen
4104

Kyp's Dozen, also known as the Dozen-and-Two Avengers, were a starfighter squadron in the New Republic, founded by Kyp Durron and his apprentice Miko Reglia. The name was derived from the simple fact that the squadron consisted of 14 pilots. The fighters were mostly older: three X-wings, two Z-95 Headhunters, A-wings, B-wing starfighters, and XJs for the two Jedi. In 25 ABY, the Avengers, specifically the squadron leader and Jedi Knight Kyp Durron, discovered a ship fleeing from some sort of emergency on Belkadan to the isolated Helska IV in the Helska system. They trailed it there, only to be intercepted by a group of Yuuzhan Vong fighters, who annihilated the Dozen-and-Two, leaving only Kyp Durron and the other Jedi in the squadron, Miko Reglia, alive, the latter landing on the planet's surface, and the former fleeing to Sernpidal. Durron would reform a new Dozen-and-Two Avengers during the Yuuzhan Vong War. By 25.7 ABY, it consisted of thirteen X-wings, A-wings, and modified Y-wings. Consisting of veterans already engaged in relief work, Durron reformed them, gaining classification as a support unit. However, to appease both Luke Skywalker and the New Republic Defense Force, he changed the name to the Kyp's Dozen. The new squadron included Kyp, Ganner Rhysode, Deak, and Yara. They were at Bothawui and the Battle of Kubindi in 26 ABY. Five of its members died at the Second Battle of Sernpidal. They ran supplies for the New Plympto resistance. Octa Ramis joined the Dozen prior to the Battle of Coruscant, but she left during the battle, blaming Kyp for the loss of all the squadron's non-Jedi pilots. *The New Jedi Order: Vector Prime *The New Jedi Order: Agents of Chaos II: Jedi Eclipse *The New Jedi Order: Balance Point *The New Jedi Order: Edge of Victory I: Conquest *The New Jedi Order: Edge of Victory II: Rebirth *The New Jedi Order: Star by Star *The New Jedi Order: Dark Journey *The New Jedi Order: Destiny's Way *The New Jedi Order: Ylesia *The New Jedi Order: The Unifying Force *The New Jedi Order Sourcebook *The New Essential Guide to Characters *The New Essential Chronology *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Galactic Alliance starfighter squadrons Category:New Jedi Order organizations Category:New Republic starfighter squadrons