24003
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Galactic_Standard_Calendar
Galactic Standard Calendar
8910

The Galactic Standard Calendar was the standard dating system used throughout the galaxy. The most recent of these calendars eras used the Battle of Yavin as its epoch, or "year zero." As galactic civilization had existed for more than 25,000 years, maintaining a unified and standardized calendar in the entire galaxy has always been extremely challenging. Over time, however, historians have used numerous galaxy-changing events as epochs to mark new calendar eras. One particularly notable epoch is the Treaty of Coruscant of 3653 BBY. The calendar eras before and after this event (referred to as "BTC" and "ATC," respectively) were popularized by the famous Jedi historian Gnost-Dural. His holographic records, which used this numbering system, contained some of the most complete records of numerous important events such as the Hundred-Year Darkness, the Great Hyperspace War, the Great Sith War, the Mandalorian Wars, the Jedi Civil War, and the Great Galactic War against the returned Sith Empire. For this reason, this method of numbering years remains important to historians. Millennia later, the Ruusan Reformation of 1000 BBY substantially restructured the Galactic Republic and created a new calendar with the year 1000 BBY as its zero point.The New Essential Chronology Centuries later, in 35 BBY, the Republic Measures & Standards Bureau established the Great ReSynchronization calendar to rebalance the disparate dating systems used by the Galactic Republic. In 23 BBY, the Republic Measures & Standards Bureau debated whether to keep this calendar as one of the twenty or so official calendars of the Republic, with Keelen Ma commenting that the various researchers were getting tired of needing calendar converters on their pads. The Great ReSynchronization calendar eventually emerged as the main dating system used in the galaxy during the Clone Wars and the Imperial Era.Holonet News'Galaxywide NewsNets Around 25 ABY, the New Republic Historical Council established its own dating system. From that point on, the year in which the Battle of Yavin occurred was the epoch used for the dating system.The Essential Chronology The New Republic's calendar was still in use at the time of the Sith–Imperial War. A standard year, as defined by the Coruscant-based Galactic Standard Time, counted 368 standard days of 24 standard hours. One standard year included 10 standard months + 3 festival weeks + 3 holidays. The duration of the standard month and year had been used originally to establish the Galactic Standard Calendar.Star Wars: The Roleplaying Game, Second Edition, Revised and Expanded However, calendar reforms had eventually changed the Galactic Standard Calendar to a 12-month/368-day calendar. Although the standard year was originally defined as a 10-month year early in the Expanded Universe, the keeper of the Holocron continuity database Leland Chee revealed in 2005 that the 10-month calendar system had been dropped for further publications and replaced by a more convenient 12-month calendar. The use of a 12-month/368-day calendar was later confirmed by Sue Rostoni. Thus, the reference book The Essential Atlas featured years of 12 months and months of 30 or 31 days.The Essential Atlas However, Karen Traviss had claimed that she used the 10-month calendar when writing her Republic Commando novels&mdash;despite the fact that, in said novels, the one-year anniversary of the First Battle of Geonosis occurs approximately twelve months after the battle.Karen Traviss's novel Republic Commando: Hard Contact dates the Battle of Qiilura to three months after the First Battle of Geonosis. Furthermore, the events of the main section of Republic Commando: Triple Zero, which take place nine months after the Battle of Qiilura, span twenty-eight days and begin on the day before the one-year anniversary of the First Battle of Geonosis. Therefore the one-year anniversary of the First Battle of Geonosis must have taken place twelve months after the battle. *Star Wars (2013) 10 *Star Wars: The Roleplaying Game, Second Edition *Star Wars: The Roleplaying Game, Second Edition, Revised and Expanded *Player's Guide to Tapani *Lords of the Expanse *The Essential Chronology *The New Essential Chronology *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia }} Category:Calendars