24131
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/New_Republic_Common_Charter
New Republic Common Charter
3423

The New Republic Common Charter was a document outlining the principles of the New Republic that laid out its processes and political mechanisms. Its articles outlined the tenets and operational structure of the government in general, statutory terms. The charter was created by the Provisional Council to create a more unified and defined government in place of the transitional government established by the Declaration of a New Republic. It fully took effect in 7 ABY on Restoration Day. The Charter restored much of the Galactic Constitution. When the New Republic was reorganized into the Galactic Federation of Free Alliances, the New Republic Common Charter underwent several major changes into Galactic Alliance Common Charter and effectively became the new constitution, with increased checks and balances and a new federal structure, strove to correct many of the flaws of the previous Republic. While the Declaration set forth the basic principles and tenets of the Republic, members were confederated under it. Applicant worlds were required to review and agree to abide by the charter and its related statutes. Articles within the charter described the method by which planets become members, the three types of membership, the rights and responsibilities of members, and the bodies of government and their respective powers. *Article 5 provided the Chief of State the right to declare war against a "known enemy". *Article 11 proclaimed a principle of free navigation. *Article 19 described what planets may fall under the control of the New Republic, expressly forbids the assertion of power over any planet without a native population and allows any beings to settle such a planet without political affiliation. *The Chief of State's role was formally expanded to make the holder of its office simultaneously President of the Senate and Commander in Chief of the Armed Forces. This was likely located in Article 5 as well. According to the Hapan Treaty, the Hapes Consortium was allowed to maintain its membership in the Republic while retaining sovereignty over its own territories, so long as it conformed to the Common Charter.Cracken's Threat Dossier *Before the Storm *Tyrant's Test *Specter of the Past *Young Jedi Knights: Delusions of Grandeur *Young Jedi Knights: Return to Ord Mantell *The Jedi Academy Sourcebook *Cracken's Threat Dossier *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:New Republic laws and acts