24258
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Erel_Kersos
Erel Kersos
6108

Erel Kersos was a Human male Corellian surgeon, holding the rank of Admiral during the Clone Wars, and Commanding Officer in charge of a MedStar-class frigate during the Battle of Drongar. Coming from a very solidly Ensterite origins, Erel, from the Kersos clan, was a disciple of a long and traditional sociopolitical affiliation in which its core belief system was that no marriage could be made, much less consummated, outside the inhabitants of one’s own planetary system.MedStar I: Battle Surgeons In his youth, however, Erel defied this system by marring Feleema, an outsider – an Ekster, according to the ensterites traditionalists – giving up his clan name and renouncing everything, dealing with the terrible consequences of being forever shunned as a non-permes, a social and personal invisibility that did not diminished with time, or even with death. After six years of marriage notwithstanding, Erel’s spouse Feleema died in a mag-lev accident on Coruscant, alongside four hundred others. It was quick – a superconductor failed, the safeties malfunctioned, and the train left the rail at three hundred kilometers per hour and rammed into a row of deserted industrial buildings in the southern hemisphere. No survivors in any of the cars. Widowed and with no children, young Erel Kersos applied himself to his work and made a career in the military, as a fresh lieutenant in the service of the Republic. His family and culture was no longer available to him: he wasn’t able to go home for his father’s funeral; his mother considered him to be dead; plus, the nephews and nieces he never met, never saw, never even knew were born. Nearly forty years later of having renounced his Ensterite heritage, at the time of the Clone Wars, Erel was promoted to Admiral in the Republic Navy, and before applying to the duty of replacing Admiral Tarnese Bleyd after his murder by an assassin in 20 BBY, he found out his great-nephew, Jos Vondar, was serving as Chief Surgeon at the Republic Mobile Surgical Unit 7 on Drongar. As the Commanding Officer of the MedStar-class frigate in orbit of the planet, Admiral Kersos inquired about his great-nephew and found out that Jos was having a romantic relationship with a Lorrdian nurse, named Tolk le Trene. Determined to “spare him of grief” due to the trauma of his own personal experience, Erel intervened in the relationship by having a private conversation with Tolk on the matter, and explained the situation regarding his and Jos’ culture in such a way that it convinced her to request for a transfer to Rimsoo 3, across the Sea of Sponges, a thousand klicks north away from Jos. Later on, after a moment of epiphany, Vondar realized how his great-uncle inconveniently intervened in his relationship with Tolk, and in a surge of ire went to see Admiral Kersos in his office abord the Medstar, questioning him for his attitude and demanding explanations. After an intense discussion in which the state of the ensterite culture and values were put to the test, with Jos even bringing up how the practice of Hustru fönster became more widespread in their homeworld, Erel, who saw his younger self in Jos in that moment by making a similar speech he once did to his brother, decided to support his great-nephew’s choice in any way he could. He corrected his mistake by having Tolk transferred back to Rimsoo 7, and even allowed her to watch the recording of the conversation he and Jos had as evidence. After the Battle of Drongar, Admiral Erel Kersos requested to be reassigned to Borellos Base on Corellia, in order to accompany both Jos and Tolk and back them up with his support. Having spent practically his entire life alone and after finally finding some family, Erel felt ready to return home. *MedStar II: Jedi Healer *MedStar II: Jedi Healer abridged audiobook *The Essential Reader's Companion Category:Corellians Category:Healers and doctors Category:Humans Category:Males Category:Republic Navy admirals