24348
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Bonadan_alloy_heavy_suit
Bonadan alloy heavy suit
11594

The Bonadan alloy heavy suit or Bonadan-alloy armor was a type of light armor that saw use in 3956 BBY, during the Jedi Civil War. The armor was created by the emerging society on the Outer Rim planet Bonadan and was well-known for its strength. Along with other small arms, the armor was exported to fund Bonadan's exploration of the galaxy. It was constructed with a unique alloy created on the port world, and was owned by several merchants throughout the galaxy. The armor continued to be available several years later in 3951 BBY, during the Dark Wars, when it was worn by Admiral Carth Onasi. The Bonadan alloy heavy suit, also called Bonadan-alloy armor, was constructed using Bonadan alloy, a unique and heavy alloy created on the industrial planet Bonadan that increased the strength of the armor. Despite its heavy component materials, the suit was considered light and could be worn by those with no training in the use of heavier armor types. The alloy suit was known for its defensive strength, including against slashing melee weapons. During the Jedi Civil War, the armor cost between 900 and 1,350 credits, although the price had increased by the time of the subsequent Dark Wars, costing from 1,700 up to 2,040 credits. By this time, the armor was high-quality enough to be capable of enhancement with different types of alloy overlays and underlays. The suit was comprised of a large red metal chest plate with tan cloth underneath, as well as bright red sleeves and pants with black stripes down the side. The complete suit also had red gloves, black boots, and a beige utility belt with a single red holster attached. thumb|left|215px|Mika Dorin (pictured) offered exclusive stock to Revan. The Bonadan alloy heavy suit was owned by vendors and used throughout the galaxy during the Jedi Civil War, a conflict between the Galactic Republic and the Sith Empire. The armor was developed by an emerging industrial society on the Outer Rim port planetThe Essential Atlas Bonadan. The densely populated world, despite having banned weapons, produced and exported small arms and their renowned high-quality armor in order to finance the exploration of the galaxy undertaken by the society on Bonadan. In 3956 BBY,The Essential Atlas places the events of Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic in 3956 BBY. a set of the armor was owned by the Human female Kebla Yurt,Game files from Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic establish Kebla Yurt as having a Human female head model. who ran an Equipment Emporium in the Upper City of the Outer Rim planet Taris. Unlike much of her other stock, the armor was not confiscated by the Sith during their occupation and quarantine of the ecumenopolis. That year, another set was owned by Mika Dorin, a Rodian bartender of The Drunk Side, a cantina in the small Dreshdae colony on the Outer Rim Sith planet Korriban. The armor was part of the specialty stock Dorin wanted to offer to the amnesiac Dark Lord of the Sith Revan, who had been retrained as a Jedi and recently discovered his past. After Revan's escape from the Sith Interdictor-class cruiser Leviathan, Dorin sent a business partner, the Twi'lek male Ziagrom,Game files from Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic establish Ziagrom as having a Twi'lek male head model. to approach Revan and inform him that Dorin was willing to engage in trade with the redeemed Sith Lord using their exclusive premium stock. The armor could still be found in the stock of many vendors half a decade later, in 3951 BBY,The New Essential Chronology places the events of Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic II: The Sith Lords in 3951 BBY during the Dark Wars that followed the Jedi Civil War and saw the purge of most remaining Jedi. One set of the armor was worn by Revan's old companion and war hero-turned-admiral Carth Onasi during his time observing the Jedi Exile Meetra Surik and during incumbent Dark Lord of the Sith Darth Nihilus's attack on Citadel Station over his home planet Telos IV. thumb|right|Menu icon The Bonadan alloy heavy suit first appeared in Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic, a 2003 video game developed by BioWare. It was found in the stock of Kebla Yurt and Mika Dorin, both vendors whose interactions do not affect plot or alignment. Mika Dorin's stock is not accessible until the player escapes the Leviathan and learns Revan's identity, after which they will be approached by Ziagrom if they visit Korriban. Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic: Prima's Official Strategy Guide, published in 2003 by Prima Games, misspells Bonadan as "Bonadon," calls the armor suit a combat vest on one instance, and incorrectly states that Dorin sells the Bonadan alloy heavy suit for 2,500 credits.Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic: Prima's Official Strategy Guide Wizards of the Coast's 2008 Knights of the Old Republic Campaign Guide, a supplement to their Star Wars Roleplaying Game, identifies the suit as Bonadan-alloy armor. The 2004 sequel video game Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic II: The Sith Lords, in which the armor appears, uses randomization when determining the stock of vendors, rewards, or loot in containers or remains. As such, the Bonadan alloy heavy suit has a chance to be found on multiple planets, but is not guaranteed on any. The individuals with a chance of selling or rewarding the armor include the Duros Samhan Dobo on Citadel Station, the Duros Oondar and Twi'lek Fassa on Nal Hutta's moon, Nar Shaddaa, the Aqualish Margar and Human Gegorran in the capital city Iziz on the planet Onderon, the Mandalorian Kex on Onderon's moon Dxun, and the Rodian Adum Larp in the headquarters of the Khoonda government on the planet Dantooine. The armor only has a chance to be rewarded by dock master Fassa if the player completes the "Fassa's Freighters" quest while levels ten or eleven. The Bonadan alloy heavy suit is identical in appearance to that of the Echani shield suit that appears in Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic II: The Sith Lords, but game files establish that Carth Onasi wore the former during his appearances. *Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic *Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic II: The Sith Lords *Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic: Prima's Official Strategy Guide *Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic II: The Sith Lords: Prima Official Game Guide *Knights of the Old Republic Campaign Guide Category:Medium armor