24387
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Clone_engineer
Clone engineer
12845

}} Clone engineers, also known as combat engineer clone troopers, were clone troopers of the Grand Army of the Republic that specialized in military engineering, repairs, and demolitions work, filling a supportive role in the Galactic Republic's military during the Clone Wars against the Confederacy of Independent Systems. Following the rise of the Galactic Empire, clone engineers continued to serve under the Imperial regime. thumb|left|300px|Three clone engineers of the Combat Engineer Battalion. Clone engineers, also called combat engineer clone troopers, were clone troopers of the Grand Army of the Republic that specialized in military engineering&mdash;performing field repairs on vehicles, structures, weapons, droids, and general equipment for the Grand Army. Selected randomly on Kamino to become engineers, clone combat engineers became attuned to vehicles and their idiosyncrasies during their training.Star Wars Battlefront II: Prima Official Game Guide They were skilled at construction and equipment modifications, with one group of engineers being able to reconfigure an A5-RX battle tank into a A5-RX spread-missile battle platform in the midst of battle. Clone combat engineers filled a supportive role in the Grand Army, often being assigned to armored divisions and units that used heavy vehicles or artillery emplacements. Clone engineers were also skilled at demolitions, and were used to scan for and dispose of roadside explosives during travel. Different units fielded clone engineers during the Clone Wars&mdash;including the 501st Legion, the 38th Armored Division, and the 38th Division's Combat Engineer Battalion&mdash;which was made up entirely of clone combat engineers. thumb|right|300px|Faie's customized clone engineer armor. Clone engineers wore both standard Phase II clone trooper armor and a modified version of the armor, with a ribcage-shaped chestplate and a more rounded helmet design&mdash;featuring two visors instead of a single T-shaped one. The armor could be customized to denote unit affiliation, as was the case with the 38th Armored Division's brown markings. Clone trooper commander Faie customized his clone engineer armor further, giving it a white cloak.Republic 74 Combat engineer clone troopers wielded different weapons during the war&mdash;including the DC-15S blaster carbine, the DC-15A blaster rifle, shotguns, and detonation packs. Clone engineers also made use of supportive equipment, such as the F-187 fusioncutter which they used for repairs, and ammo and bacta canisters which were given out by the engineers to other troopers during battle. Clone engineers units could be deployed from Republic Troop Transports. thumb|left|170px|A clone engineer. Active as early as 22 BBY,The New Essential Chronology clone engineers participated in the Battle of Thule during the Clone Wars between the Galactic Republic and the Confederacy of Independent Systems, where they were deployed to destroy multiple shield generators on the planet, leaving them vulnerable to attack. One year later, in 21 BBY,Repel All Boarders! is set around the time of "Heroes on Both Sides" (21 BBY), which marks the debut of revamped appearances for several main characters. Considering that the comics featured in Star Wars Comic UK are published in chronological order, and that "Burn the Behemoth!" is the first comic in the series to feature the new character models, it can be concluded that "Repel All Boarders!" takes place in 21 BBY. the 38th Armored Division's clone engineers, including clone trooper sergeant Gaffa, helped repel Separatist boarders on the Twilight with a modified A5-RX spread-missile battle platform of their own creation. Clone combat engineers continued to see service throughout the war, participating in the Battle of Kashyyyk, the Battle of Mygeeto, and the Battle of Utapau. thumb|right|200px|An Imperial clone engineer reports to Darth Vader. Following the activation of Order 66 by Supreme Chancellor Palpatine in 19 BBY, clone engineers of the 501st Legion participated in Operation: Knightfall, helping execute Jedi in the Jedi Temple on the planet Coruscant. After the rise of the Galactic Empire in 19 BBY, clone engineers continued to serve as Imperial clone stormtroopers under the new regime, finding explosives and disposing of them for Darth Vader, prior to an ambush on Kestavel where they were all killed after being ignited with engine fuel. Clone engineers first appeared in the 2002 Star Wars: The Clone Wars video game, developed by Pandemic Studios and published by LucasArts. Clone engineers were originally designed as different pieces of concept art of Commander Faie, created for the 2005 film .The Art of Star Wars Episode III: Revenge of the Sith Although the designs were never used in the film, they were later adapted into the look of clone engineers for the 2005 video game Star Wars: Battlefront II, also created by Pandemic Studios and published by LucasArts. *Star Wars: Battlefront II *Star Wars: The Clone Wars video game *The Clone Wars: Decide Your Destiny: The Way of the Jedi *Republic 74 *Dark Times—A Spark Remains 5 thumb|right|170px|Concept art for Faie, which became the look for clone engineers in Star Wars: Battlefront II. *Star Wars Battlefront: Prima Official Game Guide *The Art of Star Wars Episode III: Revenge of the Sith *The Making of Star Wars Revenge of the Sith *Star Wars Battlefront II: Prima Official Game Guide *Threats of the Galaxy *The Clone Wars Campaign Guide *Star Wars: The Complete Saga Engineer Category:Engineers