24596
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Kelliak_Arms_and_Armor_Company
Kelliak Arms and Armor Company
4124

Kelliak Arms and Armor Company, commonly known as KAAC, was a repulsorcraft manufacturer. They developed and manufactured the Freerunner with the intent of selling it to the Imperial Military. However, the Empire did not purchase the vehicle, causing a financial disaster for Kelliak that caused the company to go bankrupt. Kelliak Arms and Armor Company, commonly abbreviated to KAAC, was a repulsorcraft manufacturer. The company went out of business during the early years of the Galactic Empire due to the commercial failure of their latest product, the Freerunner. Shortly after the end of the Clone Wars,The Force Unleashed Campaign Guide in the early years of the Galactic Empire, Kelliak developed and manufactured the Freerunner, a repulsorlift vehicle with a free-rotating fun platform mounted on the main chassis. The platform allowed the Freerunner to mount various weapon types to meet different mission profiles and the needs of the vehicle's owners. Kelliak advertized the Freerunner as the "ultimate in fast, flexible firepower," and boasted that it has the "freedom to meet any combat situation with the appropriate countermeasure." Kelliak designed the Freerunner to function as a scout, escort and frontline combat unit. The intent was to sell the Freerunner to the Imperial Military. However, the Freerunner suffered from a case of bad timing since the Empire had made a decision to focus on tracked vehicle and walker designs. The vehicle design and advertizing campaign failed to convince the Imperial Military, who passed on it. Kelliak took a huge loss of the Freerunner and ended up selling the entire stock to arms merchants and undercover Alliance to Restore the Republic agents. With no major contracts from the Empire, and the financial disaster of the Freerunner, Kelliak went bankrupt. *"Side Trip" *Dark Force Rising *The Rebel Alliance Sourcebook *Dark Force Rising Sourcebook *The Rebel Alliance Sourcebook, Second Edition *Star Wars Gamemaster Screen, Revised *The Thrawn Trilogy Sourcebook *Classic Adventures: Volume Four — The Best of the Journal *Rules of Engagement: The Rebel SpecForce Handbook *The Force Unleashed Campaign Guide Category:Repulsorcraft manufacturers