24552
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Sancor
Sancor
6795

Sancor was a humanoid male Inquisitor who served the Galactic Empire. Along with fellow Inquisitor Malorum, Sancor was assigned with gathering information for Darth Vader concerning the medical facility at Polis Massa. He conducted a thorough and exhaustive investigation, checking every record he could get a hold of, including supply usage records and med droid memory banks. Several months after the inauguration of the Galactic Empire, Sancor requested a meeting with Osh Scal, the medical supply officer of the facility. What he did not know was that when Maneeli Tuun brought Osh Scal to him, however, the real Osh Scal was not present, but instead a disguised Obi-Wan Kenobi, who was trying to hide the information of the Skywalker twins' birth from the Sith, having had Tuun add more supplies to another patient on the supply files to coax Sancor away from discovering the twins and download it onto a disk. But Kenobi's disguise didn't work for long, with Sancor noticing many faults and gaps in the records that didn't make sense, and Kenobi acting suspicious. Sancor eventually pulled up the employee list and queried Kenobi about an event in Scal's past, noticing how Kenobi wrongly said the war was chaotic when in that quadrant it war fairly peaceful due to the action happening elsewhere in the galaxy, Sancor had turned to look at Kenobi and so failed to see Osh Scal's profile had popped up, Kenobi attempted to mind trick Sancor to no avail, and eventually said he could access the files quicker through the other port, to which Sancor ordered him to do so. Obi-Wan almost got away with it, when Tuun checked in to ask if they were almost done, and Sancor spotted the profile of Osh Scal on his screen. Sancor pulled a blaster on Tuun, his suspicions that the Polis Massan's were hiding something confirmed, and he opened fire on Tuun, to which Obi-Wan defended the chief medic with his lightsaber. Surprised, Sancor ran out of the records office with the record disk Obi-Wan had handed him, running to the main hangar. Kenobi gave chase to which Sancor covered his escape with blaster fire and a wrist rocket. Eventually he led Kenobi into a new and large, dimly lit observation platform above a new medical theater. In the observation platform, Sancor hid in a corner, while Obi-Wan used the Force to sense him, that was when Sancor attacked the Jedi with another wrist rocket, but Obi-Wan leapt out of the way and it hit the wall of the observation platform he was standing on. Sancor had underestimated the power of the rocket and the platform began to collapse, Obi-Wan leapt through the door sized whole created by the wrist rocket, and watched as Sancor attempted to climb up the tipping observation platform before it fully gave way and Sancor fell onto a table below in the medical theatre that was covered with sharp medical instruments, killing himself. It was because of this that Vader did not become aware of his son and daughter, who had both been hidden from him. According to Manneli Tuun Sancor was clever and deeply skilled in record security, alongside being dedicated enough to do an exhaustive search on the med droids memory banks on Polis Massa to try and get further details relating to Padmé Amidala's death, as per Malorum's interests, even searching the droids that weren't present while Padmé was there. Sancor proved to be quite rude, asking people if he asked them to stay when they overstayed their welcome, or saying if he wished to speak to someone in particular, he would've summoned them. Despite his rudeness, his research and intelligence let him almost figure out Obi-Wan Kenobi was not in fact Osh Scal, inquiring about events of Scal's past as a test to Obi-Wan, with his suspicions being confirmed when he looked at Osh Scal's profile on an employee list. However, Sancor ran with disk full of the medical records once Obi-Wan Kenobi protected Tuun from Sancor's blaster fire, but he continued to cover his escape with blaster fire and wrist rockets. Sancor was a small humanoid with black beady eyes, long three jointed fingers, a pair of antennae that twitched, and small sharp teeth. He wore a dark robe that seemed to be too big for his small size, dwarfing him. Big enough that he had to pull back his sleeves to use his wrist rockets. *The Last of the Jedi: Dark Warning *The Last of the Jedi: Death on Naboo *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Individuals of unidentified species Category:Inquisitors Category:Males