24858
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Battle_of_Gyndine
Battle of Gyndine
6109

The Battle of Gyndine was an early battle of the Yuuzhan Vong War. The planet Gyndine was quickly set up as a refugee planet during the initial war. Following the fall of Ord Mantell to the Yuuzhan Vong, many of the survivors came to Gyndine. The Yuuzhan Vong also launched an assault on the planet soon afterward, aided by agents disguised in ooglith masquers provoking hysteria among the population. Fortunately for the New Republic, Wurth Skidder helped defend the planet. Despite a valiant two-day campaign on the part of the new Republic forces, the Yuuzhan Vong were still able to burn the planet's forests and boil its lakes using Fire Breathers, which was the first time the New Republic encountered those weapons. A large number of New Republic refugee ships were destroyed in the initial wave of the Yuuzhan Vong attack - along with passengers - and the New Republic was forced to abandon the planet, its inhabitants, and the refugees. After the battle ended the Yuuzhan Vong began to gradually terraform the planet, slowly killing off the refugees trapped on Gyndine. The New Republic was able to evacuate 5,000 civilians from the world, many of them having been relocated to Gyndine from worlds already conquered by the Yuuzhan Vong. Because the vast majority of the evacuees were from worlds that had been early members of the Rebel Alliance, many saw it as discrimination against former Imperials. During the battle, Jedi Klin-Fa Gi was presumed killed; in actuality, however, she used her apparent death as a means of secretly traveling to Wayland to spy on Yuuzhan Vong activities. In 28 ABY, Admiral Traest Kre'fey won a New Republic victory at Gyndine during the lead-up to a major action against the Yuuzhan Vong at Ebaq 9. Later in the war, an attempt to liberate the world would be lost. Gyndine was eventually recaptured from the Yuuzhan Vong by Boba Fett and his fellow Mandalorians. *The New Jedi Order: Agents of Chaos II: Jedi Eclipse *The New Jedi Order: Balance Point *"Emissary of the Void" *The New Jedi Order: Ylesia *The New Jedi Order: Force Heretic III: Reunion *Legacy of the Force: Fury *The New Jedi Order Sourcebook *The New Essential Chronology *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia *The Essential Atlas *The Essential Reader's Companion Category:Battles of Gyndine Category:Battles of the Yuuzhan Vong War