24856
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Battle_of_Tynna
Battle of Tynna
4330

A battle took place over the Expansion Region planet Tynna during the Yuuzhan Vong War in 25 ABY. The battle was not fought for a specific strategic target; rather, the extragalactic Yuuzhan Vong launched the attack in an attempt to ensure that the New Republic believed their captured intelligence that the next Yuuzhan Vong attack would be either Corellia or Bothawui. The Yuuzhan Vong hoped that the New Republic would deplete their forces protecting both planets, when they in fact planned to attack Fondor next. While a New Republic starfighter contingent was posted over Tynna, it was quickly defeated by the invaders. Having done away with its defenders, the Yuuzhan Vong made planetfall on Tynna and landed at the Tanallay Surge complex. Tricked by the collaborationist Peace Brigade into surrendering without mounting any resistance,The New Jedi Order Sourcebook a group of several hundred unarmed Tynnans awaited the Yuuzhan Vong at the Surge complex. However, commanders Nas Choka and Malik Carr instead oversaw the release of a chemical into the local waters with a view to transforming Tynna into a biological production facility. Designed to augment the water for the production of dovin basals, the chemical was deployed at a lagoon near the Surge complex and quickly spread across Tynna, turning the planet's blue seas yellow. The events were broadcast to every city on Tynna, and were also witnessed by New Republic intelligence officers Belindi Kalenda and Showolter, who observed the conquest from a LightStealth-18 Reconnaissance Ship nearby. The Battle of Tynna first appeared in the novel The New Jedi Order: Agents of Chaos II: Jedi Eclipse, which was written by James Luceno and released in 2000. *The New Jedi Order: Agents of Chaos II: Jedi Eclipse *The New Jedi Order: Balance Point *The New Jedi Order: Force Heretic II: Refugee *The New Jedi Order: Force Heretic III: Reunion *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia *The Essential Atlas Category:Battles of the Yuuzhan Vong War Category:Battles of Tynna