24867
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Hapan_Royal_Navy
Hapan Royal Navy
12962

The Hapan Royal Navy, also known as Hapan Fleets, Hapan Royal Fleet or the Consortium Navy, was the primary military forces of the Hapes Consortium, a matriarchal monarchy based in the Hapes Cluster of the Inner Rim. The Hapan Royal Navy had its origins in the Lorell Raiders, a band of pirates who raided Galactic Republic shipping from the concealment of the Transitory Mists that isolated the Cluster. After the pirate fleet was virtually annihilated by the Jedi, a matriarchal monarchy headed by a Queen Mother arose on Hapes and began to subdue the other planets within the Cluster. By approximately 3100 BBY, the newly-unified Hapes Consortium sealed its borders upon the command of the reigning Queen Mother.The Courtship of Princess Leia At around this time, the Navy's primary role became focused on defending the Consortium's borders against smugglers, pirates, and other intruders. It is also likely the Navy participated in subduing the rebellious Rifle Worlds when they attempted to secede from the Consortium sometime between 3000 BBY and 8 ABY. thumb|right|250px|A Hapan fleet of [[Hapan Battle Dragon|Battle Dragons and Nova-class battle cruisers at the Battle of Andalia.]] While there are no records of major confrontations between the Hapan Navy and the Imperial Starfleet during the reign of the Galactic Empire, there were a number of skirmishes. In 0 ABY, a small Imperial fleet under the command of Grand Admiral Osvald Teshik violated the Consortium's borders on the orders of Emperor Palpatine. The force arrived above Hapes proper before it proceeded to the Andalia system, where it was destroyed by the Hapan Royal Navy. An Imperial snoopship later succeeded in recovering Teshik.The Essential Guide to Warfare Other military encounters between the two powers resulted in the Hapan capture of several Imperial Star Destroyers. In 8 ABY, an honor guard detachment from the Consortium Navy accompanied Prince Isolder to New Republic capital of Coruscant in the Chume'da's bid for the hand of Princess Leia Organa Solo. Later that year, the Hapan Royal Navy fought against Warlord Zsinj at the Battle of Dathomir. After the battle, the Consortium entered into an alliance with the New Republic. However, the Hapan Treaty made clear that the Hapan Fleet would remain independent from the New Republic Defense Fleet, as the vast majority of the Hapes Consortium preferred to remain a smaller cog in galactic affairs rather than risk being seen as a political rival to the New Republic.Cracken's Threat Dossier In 25 ABY, Ambassador Solo approached the Consortium for assistance in the struggle against the Yuuzhan Vong. After a rancorous debate, the Consortium committed the Hapan Royal Navy to the conflict. The Hapan fleet mustered at Commenor alongside a New Republic flotilla under the command of Commodore Turk Brand in anticipation of a Yuuzhan Vong attack on nearby Corellia. However, the attack came at Fondor. The joint task force soon arrived at the planet, where they quickly arrayed themselves for battle. However, three-fourths of the Hapan Navy was destroyed when Thrackan Sal-Solo fired Centerpoint Station at the Yuuzhan Vong fleet. Some survivors of the Fondor debacle deserted and subsequently became pirates.The New Jedi Order: Dark Journey thumb|left|175px|The Hapan fleet is devastated at Fondor. By 27 ABY, secret shipyards concealed within the Transitory Mists had rebuilt the Consortium Navy. Under the temporary command of Colonel Jagged Fel, these forces repelled a Yuuzhan Vong invasion force. In 28 ABY, a Hapan Royal Navy task force under the command of Queen Mother Tenel Ka Djo helped annihilate a Yuuzhan Vong fleet at the Second Battle of Obroa-skai.The New Jedi Order: Destiny's Way The Hapan Navy also participated in the Recapture of Coruscant.The New Jedi Order: The Unifying Force During the Dark Nest Crisis, a Consortium task force under Dukat Aleson Gray supported The Colony at the Battle of Qoribu.Dark Nest I: The Joiner King In 40 ABY, Corellia attempted to draw the Consortium into its camp with an assassination attempt against Queen Mother Tenel Ka and her heir. The plan was to have a pro-Corellian faction take the Queen Mother's place. Three Corellian Dreadnaughts joined the rebel Hapan fleet, but support from the Galactic Alliance Defense Fleet helped the loyalist Navy stop the coup.Legacy of the Force: Tempest During the Second Galactic Civil War, the Consortium Navy provided critical support to the Galactic Federation of Free Alliances. The Hapan Home Fleet fought under Galactic Alliance Guard Colonel and aspirant Sith Lord Jacen Solo at the Battle of Kuat against the rebellious Confederation.Legacy of the Force: Inferno However, when Solo began to raze Kashyyyk in order to lure enemy forces away from Kuat, Queen Mother Tenel Ka withdraw her fleets and supported the Jedi Coalition. The Hapan Navy fought against Solo at the Battle of Kashyyyk and the Battle of Uroro Station.Legacy of the Force: Invincible The Hapes Consortium was neutral during the Sith–Imperial War and the Second Imperial Civil War.Legacy (2006) 9 thumb|left|200px|The Hapan Navy honor guard assembled at [[Coruscant/Legends|Coruscant in 8 ABY.]] Circa 8 ABY, Isolder described the forces of Hapes as "billions of warriors, thousands of starships." During the build up prior to the Battle of Dathomir, Prince Isolder called a group of "about eighty destroyers" a Hapan fleet. While vague, these comments give some insight to their Order of Battle comparable to other space navies. The Hapan Royal Navy was centered around a fleet of hundreds of Hapan Battle Dragons, with an honor fleet containing sixty-three, one representing each member planet of the Consortium. They were backed up by Nova-class battle cruisers and Beta Cruisers, as well as X-Wings, Miy'til starfighters, and Miy'til assault bombers. Hetrinar assault bombers were also sometimes deployed by Nova-class cruisers for defensive purposes. To counteract the slow recharge rate of Hapan turbolasers, Naval officers bunched warships together to create walls of fire to cripple enemy ships in swift assaults. If a unit did not destroy all enemies in the first pass, it ran the risk of taking heavy fire while its weapons recycled. Despite the Hapan's growing relationship with the New Republic from 8 ABY forward, they did not negotiate an exchange of turbolaser technology until 25 ABY, when it was used as an incentive to bring the Hapan military into the Yuuzhan Vong War. After the exchange in technology Hapes technology particularly in military was estimated to be as much as seven hundred years behind the galaxy. *The New Jedi Order: Agents of Chaos II: Jedi Eclipse *The New Jedi Order: Agents of Chaos II: Jedi Eclipse abridged audiobook *The New Jedi Order: Recovery *The New Jedi Order: Dark Journey *The New Jedi Order: Dark Journey abridged audiobook *The New Jedi Order: Destiny's Way *The New Jedi Order: Destiny's Way abridged audiobook *The New Jedi Order: The Unifying Force *Dark Nest I: The Joiner King *Dark Nest I: The Joiner King abridged audiobook *Dark Nest II: The Unseen Queen *Dark Nest II: The Unseen Queen abridged audiobook *Legacy of the Force: Betrayal *Legacy of the Force: Betrayal abridged audiobook *Legacy of the Force: Tempest *Legacy of the Force: Tempest abridged audiobook *Legacy of the Force: Inferno *Legacy of the Force: Inferno abridged audiobook *Legacy of the Force: Fury *Legacy of the Force: Fury abridged audiobook *Legacy of the Force: Invincible *Legacy of the Force: Invincible abridged audiobook *Fate of the Jedi: Apocalypse }} *The Essential Guide to Vehicles and Vessels *Cracken's Threat Dossier *The Essential Guide to Weapons and Technology *The New Jedi Order Sourcebook *The Essential Atlas *Galaxy of Intrigue *The Essential Guide to Warfare Category:Hapan Royal Navy Category:Hapes Consortium military Category:Militaries