25052
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Raina_Quill
Raina Quill
5330

Raina Quill was a Humanoid woman from the planet Acherin who served the Confederacy of Independent Systems during the Clone Wars. Before the Clone Wars, she had completed her medical training in hopes of becoming a doctor, but her planet soon was part of the Separatist cause. She joined this cause, not for the greed and corruption that its leaders stood for but because she felt that Acherin had the right to secede, no matter what the intentions were. Raina was also worried that the Republic's rule was gradually becoming too absolute. Raina fought alongside the Separatists for nearly the whole war, until herself and another Separatist commander named Toma began talks with Senior Jedi General Garen Muln, to negotiate a ceasefire. The talks were making great progress until Supreme Chancellor Palpatine initiated Order 66. Raina and Toma helped Muln secretly flee Acherin, to hide on the planet Ilum. Seeing what the new Empire was, the people of Acherin started a resistance movement. Along with Toma, Raina became one of its top commanders and was a skilled pilot in battle. Nearly a year after the Clone Wars, the resistance was crumbling. The Imperial forces, led by Admiral Riwwel proved to be too strong for the ragtag resistance. On the last day of the resistance movement, after being chased by Imperial fighters, Raina met a group of offworld strangers&mdash;a Jedi Master named Obi-Wan Kenobi, a former Jedi-turned-rebel named Ferus Olin, and a thirteen-year-old boy named Trever Flume. She led them to their base in the city of Eluthan and introduced them to Toma. Along with Ferus, Raina took off in her starfighter to try and hold off the invading Imperials, but it was a failed attempt. They returned with the others and escaped Acherin, as Riwwel ordered the bombing of Eluthan. Away from Acherin, but with the Imperials still on them, Raina flew their ship into an asteroid field in the middle of an atmospheric storm. By landing on an asteroid, the Imperials would be unable to track them. Raina and Toma stayed on the asteroid for days while Ferus, Obi-Wan, and Trever went to Ilum to rescue Garen Muln. They spent a few days there, with enough food and supplies to last them. When the trio returned with Garen, as well as more supplies and prefab shelters, Raina set up a makeshift clinic and used her medical skills to help the malnourished Garen recover. Ferus Olin thanked Raina and Toma for all of their help and offered them a chance to help him recover more Jedi survivors and use the asteroid as a safe haven. Raina and Toma gladly agreed. When resistance leaders from all around the galaxy were ferried to the base, Raina caught Toma transmitting the co-ordinates to Darth Vader. After she realized that Toma was a mole placed by Vader, Toma fired his blaster, killing her, but not before she could do the same to him. *The Last of the Jedi: Dark Warning *The Last of the Jedi: Underworld *The Last of the Jedi: Death on Naboo *The Last of the Jedi: A Tangled Web *The Last of the Jedi: Return of the Dark Side *The Last of the Jedi: Secret Weapon *The Last of the Jedi: Against the Empire *The Last of the Jedi: Reckoning *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia *The Essential Reader's Companion Category:Acherin residents Category:Females Category:Healers and doctors Category:Humanoids Category:Individuals of unidentified species Category:Resistance fighters Category:Separatist holdouts individuals Category:Separatist officers