25008
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Drackmarian
Drackmarian
6266

Drackmarians were a methane-breathing reptilian species that hailed from Drackmar. They were recognized as ferocious warriors. Drackmarians were reptilian humanoids recognizable by their large sharp teeth along their snout, colorful spotted scales, vertically running spikes on the top of their head and along their shoulders. They did not require sleep. The species was native to Drackmar, a world with a methane atmosphere located in the Drackmar system of the Outer Rim Territories. Hence, Drackmarians had to wear breath mask when traveling to worlds with an oxygen atmosphere. Drackmarians were known for their generosity and their fierce independence. They usually resisted coercion to the death. Drackmarians were famous warlords who conquered several worldsAlien Anthology in their native Quelii sector, including Dathomir and Morseer. The Morseerian then became a client species of the Drackmarians.The Truce at Bakura Sourcebook The Drackmarians were also active as far as Hutt Space where they attempted without success to conquer Sakiya. During the Mandalorian Wars, the Drackmarians joined the Mandalorian Neo-Crusaders.The Essential Guide to Warfare During the Galactic Civil War, the Drackmarians were fearless opponents of the Galactic Empire. As their area of influence fell within the Quelii Oversector, Grand Moff Zsinj was tasked with conquering the Drackmarians. Controlling the largest fleet in the Empire, comprising the Star Dreadnought Brawl and hundred of Victory-class Star Destroyers of the Crimson Command, Zsinj led the attack against the Drackmarians. Sometimes prior to the Battle of Endor, the Drackmarians were driven out and forced to surrender. They therefore lost control of Dathomir and Morseer. After the death of Emperor Palpatine, the Drackmarians were only loosely allied with the New Republic. In 8 ABY, the Drackmarian warlord Omogg played a high-stakes game of Sabacc with Han Solo, and lost the deed to the planet Dathomir. It was in fact a subtle move of the Drackmarians to attract Han Solo and the New Republic to Zsinj's secret base above Dathomir. Zsinj was killed in the subsequent battle. *Death Star *The Courtship of Princess Leia *The Truce at Bakura Sourcebook *Secrets of the Sisar Run *Cracken's Threat Dossier *Alien Anthology *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia *The Essential Atlas *The Essential Guide to Warfare Category:Methane-breathing sentient species Category:Outer Rim Territories sentient species Category:Reptilian sentient species