25281
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Narro_Sienar
Narro Sienar
5192

Narro Sienar was CEO of Santhe/Sienar Technologies during the last years of the Galactic Republic, and the father of Raith Sienar and a daughter. At some point around between 97 BBY and 95 BBY,Darth Plagueis indicates that Kerred Santhe's purchase of the company took place thirty years prior to a section of the novel dated to between 67 BBY and 65 BBY. Therefore, the purchase must have taken place around between those two years. Narro was a ship designer for the company when it took control of Lianna and it came into the hands of Liann industrialist Kerred Santhe who purchased a controlling interest and renamed it Santhe/Sienar Technologies. He was forced to arrange for his young daughter to marry Kerred in order to maintain his position as chief designer. Sienar conspired with Rugess Nome, from whom Santhe Security, on Kerred's orders, had stolen the starship designs that secured his rise, to have Kerred assassinated, which was done at the hand of Hego Damask during a banquet, using bloat eel as cover. Around 65 BBY, Sienar attended a Gathering on Sojourn, and Damask hoped to position him as CEO of Santhe/Sienar, a position at that point occupied by the assassinated Kerred Santhe's son, who had accrued massive gambling debts. At some point, despite being the owner of one of the Corellian Engineering Corporation's primary competitors, Sienar helped the Corporation design the successful YT-1300 light freighter.Millennium Falcon He attended another Gathering sometime between 54 BBY and 52 BBY, by which point he had become CEO of Santhe/Sienar. His son Raith abandoned the family in his teenage years to make his own way as a hyperspace explorer using his inheritance. When, after the age of 20, he returned boasting many impressive breakthroughs as well as his own personal fortune, his precocious success impressed his father enough to begin grooming him as his successor. As part of this process, Raith went undercover among many rival companies to collect their secrets, including the Xi Char factory-cathedrals. He was however discovered by the secretive and devout insectoids, who, motivated by their religious beliefs which forbad nonbelievers access to trade secrets, sought to kill him. He foiled the attempt and returned to the fold, where he was given his own workshop, Sienar Design Systems. This feud with the Xi Char however would claim Narro's life, as in 38 BBY, while Narro and Raith were were in a pleasure cruise near Dantooine, a group of mercenaries hired by the Xi Charrians destroyed their vessel. Narro was killed in the attack, while Raith escaped in an escape ship and was given control of the company by the board of directors.The New Essential Guide to Characters *Darth Plagueis *Labyrinth of Evil *Millennium Falcon *The New Essential Guide to Characters *Millennium Falcon Owner's Workshop Manual Category:Business owners and executives Category:Humans Category:Males Category:Sienar family