25219
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Tranthellix
Tranthellix
7725

Tranthellix was a Mid Rim world situated in the Senex sector. It was the homeworld of the large carnivorous birds known as the Tranthebar mountain rippers. The world was owned by House Petro of the Senex-Juvex region and was the site of sky cities. Eventually racing using the Tranthebar mountain rippers as mounts became established on Tranthellix. Both the rippers and the races were restricted to their homeworld due to House Petro wishing to profit off them, although they became popular in the Core Worlds due to live HoloNet broadcasts. Tranthellix was a small, rugged world located in the Tranthellix system of the Senex sector, a part of the Senex-Juvex region in the Western Reaches portion of the Mid Rim. Situated in the area of the sector known as the Tangles, it was connected via hyperlanes to the Osmani and Usnia systems. The world orbited a sun and featured mountains on its surface. It was the homeworld of the Tranthebar mountain rippers, carnivorous, half-domesticated birds with a wingspan of nearly five meters. thumb|right|300px|Tranthellix was the homeworld of the Tranthebar mountain rippers. The nobles of the Senex-Juvex sought an exciting and dangerous new sport, with the Tranthebar mountain rippers of Tranthellix being a perfect fit, leading to races with the birds as mounts becoming established relatively recently by the time of the Galactic Civil War and the rippers eventually becoming what Tranthellix was best known for. House Petro, which owned the world, hoped that ripper racing would become a profitable venture and to that end had the Tranthellix government implement strict regulations for exporting rippers off-world. At some point between 0 ABY and 3 ABY,Galladinium's Fantastic Technology is set during the time period between the events of and , which corresponds to some point between 0 ABY and 3 ABY, according to The New Essential Chronology. the fiftieth-anniversary edition of Galladinium's Galactic Datalog of Fantastic Technology noted that it was not expected that the world's government would ever allow a sizeable shipment of rippers off Tranthellix. However, due to live HoloNet broadcasting, Tranthebar mountain ripper racing nevertheless was becoming popular in certain regions of the Core Worlds. At one point, the individuals Joraaz and Mithran and their respective ripper mounts raced each other on Tranthellix. Tranthellix was under the control of House Petro, one of the aristocratic Ancient Houses of the Senex-Juvex. It was administered by a local government, which also operated instances of the Tranthellix Commerce and Travel Bureau. Tranthellix was the site of an exotic galactic locale known as the sky cities. They were recreated as a hyper-realistic simulation via the use of holographic generators, tactile arrays, and olfactory emitters in the adventure rooms aboard the luxury underwater cruiser Coral Vanda that operated on the Core Worlds &mdash; Based on corresponding data for Panto system planet Pantolomin by 4.5 ABY.Star Wars: The Comics Companion dates the events of X-Wing Rogue Squadron 26, which includes a mention of the Coral Vanda, to 4.5 years after those of , which corresponds to 4.5 ABY per The New Essential Chronology. Tranthellix was first mentioned in Galladinium's Fantastic Technology, a 1995 sourcebook authored by Rick D. Stuart for use with West End Games' Star Wars: The Roleplaying Game. The 2009 reference book The Essential Atlas placed it in grid square L-18. *Galladinium's Fantastic Technology *The Essential Guide to Vehicles and Vessels *The Essential Atlas Category:Planets in the Mid Rim Category:Planets in the Western Reaches Category:Senex sector locations Category:Terrestrial planets Category:The Tangles locations