25291
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Garen_Muln
Garen Muln
9883

Garen Muln was a male Human Jedi Master who served the Jedi Order and the Galactic Republic as a General in the Grand Army of the Republic during the Clone Wars. A Force-sensitive Human, Garen Muln was brought to the Coruscant Jedi Temple at an early age where he entered a clan of other Initiates and was taught the ways of the Force. A restless adolescent, Muln was a contemporary of Obi-Wan Kenobi and maintained a good friendship despite arguing over trivial things. When a dark sider infiltrated the Temple in 44 BBY, Initiate Muln worked to thwart the intruder by disguising himself as Padawan Kenobi to help throw off the intruder's plan. While Muln and Master Ali-Alann posed as Kenobi and Master Qui-Gon Jinn, the pair were able to capture the Dark Jedi and protect the Temple from destruction.Jedi Apprentice: The Captive Temple Selected by Jedi Master Clee Rhara as a Padawan circa 42 BBY, the two continued to train as a Jedi as they traveled across the galaxy. Eventually passing his Trials of Knighthood, Jedi Muln went onto train as a ace in the Jedi Starfighter Corps, aiding his former master establish a starfighter base on Centax 2 during the Separatist Crisis which plagued the Galactic Senate.Jedi Apprentice Special Edition: Deceptions In the following years, Jedi Muln took on several missions, pairing with his childhood acquaintance Jedi Siri Tachi on a rescue mission to save Padawan Anakin Skywalker from the clutches of the deranged scientist Jenna Zan Arbor's laboratory on Vanqor.Jedi Quest: The Moment of Truth Soon after, Muln accompanied Master of the Order Mace Windu and his long time friend Bant Eerin to the planet Romin where they rescued Jedi Kenobi, Tachi and Padawans Skywalker and Ferus Olin, once more from death at the hands of Zan Arbor and the dangerous Granta Omega. When the Clone Wars erupted across the galaxy between the Republic and the Confederacy of Independent Systems, Jedi Muln took up the rank of General within the Grand Army of the Republic, adding his lightsaber to the war effort against the Separatist Droid Army. Obtaining the rank of Jedi Master by the time of the final year of the war, Master Muln was assigned to lead a small group of clone troopers against the Confederacy occupation on the world of Acherin. While there, Master Muln negotiated with Confederate commanders Toma and Raina Quill in hopes of reaching a truce.The Last of the Jedi: Dark Warning As the negotiators began to reach an agreement, Supreme Chancellor Palpatine of the Republic betrayed the Jedi Order and issued Contingency Order 66 to the Grand Army, branding the Order as traitors. Able to escape his clone troopers' wrath, Muln escaped the world with the help of Commanders Toma and Quill, his former opponents. Having fled Acherin, an injured and weary Master Muln piloted his craft to the Jedi fortress world of Ilum and take refuge from the frozen wastes in the Temple there. Ensconced within the frozen temple, Master Muln met another Jedi, Temple instructor Fy-Tor-Ana. Master Ana detailed the destruction of the Temple on Coruscant and the death of the Order before she left Ilum to go seek out survivors of the Great Jedi Purge. Remaining in the Temple's caves for nearly a year, Muln was weakened from malnutrition by the time former Padawan Ferus Olin arrived in search of him. Informing Master Muln that his old friend, Obi-Wan Kenobi was alive and in exile also, Olin managed to convince Muln to leave the world and embark on another mission. Reuniting with Master Kenobi in orbit, Muln was too weak to talk with his friend during the journey to Olin's secret asteroid. Olin planned on converting the asteroid's barren surface into a makeshift sanctuary for fugitive Jedi, starting with Muln. Once safe in the asteroid's interior, Master Muln was healed by an old acquaintance, Commander Quill, who was also with Toma. Recovering slowly, Master Muln found himself useful once more when he took over the training of the young Lune Oddo Divinian, a Force-sensitive boy whose training was started by Master Ry-Gaul. Taking over the training, Muln instilled in Divinian the virtues of the Jedi Path while remaining on the asteroid. The solace that the group of exiles had found on the asteroid would be shattered too soon when Dark Lord of the Sith and servant of the Galactic Empire Darth Vader located the base and attacked. Led there by information leaked by General Toma and a spy, Eve Yarrow, whom the group had trusted, the Jedi were stranded with nothing more than an escape pod. Master Muln, joined by Masters Ana and Ry-Gaul, loaded Lune Divinian into the pod and managed to get him off world before the attack could claim his life. Accepting that the hope of the Jedi would lay on the shoulders of younglings like Divinian, the three Masters accepted their fates as Jedi when Vader fired upon the asteroid with his superweapon, killing them. *Jedi Apprentice: The Captive Temple *Jedi Apprentice: The Day of Reckoning *Jedi Apprentice Special Edition: Deceptions *Jedi Apprentice: The Evil Experiment *Secrets of the Jedi *Jedi Quest: The Moment of Truth *Jedi Quest: The Changing of the Guard *The Last of the Jedi: The Desperate Mission *The Last of the Jedi: Dark Warning *The Last of the Jedi: Underworld *The Last of the Jedi: Death on Naboo *The Last of the Jedi: A Tangled Web *The Last of the Jedi: Return of the Dark Side *The Last of the Jedi: Secret Weapon *The Last of the Jedi: Against the Empire *The Last of the Jedi: Master of Deception *The Last of the Jedi: Reckoning *Rebel Force: Hostage *Rebel Force: Firefight *Rebel Force: Trapped }} *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia *The Essential Reader's Companion Category:Confederacy military personnel Category:Humans Category:Jedi Generals Category:Jedi Purge victims Category:Males Category:Post-Ruusan Jedi Masters Category:Separatist holdouts individuals