25778
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Saras_Loorne
Saras Loorne
6281

Saras Loorne was a male Jedi Master and a Jedi General during the Clone Wars. In 19 BBY, Loorne, along with five other Jedi and a clone trooper task force, was dispatched to occupy the Outer Rim planet Murkhana, a Corporate Alliance stronghold. During the battle, Order 66&mdash;an order for the clone troopers to execute their Jedi officers&mdash;was issued, and Loorne and the two Jedi Knights accompanying him were killed by the clones of the 22nd Air Combat Wing. Saras Loorne was a male Jedi Master who lived during the last decades of the Galactic Republic. When the Clone Wars between the Republic and the Confederacy of Independent Systems broke out, Loorne served as a Jedi General with the Grand Army of the Republic. Near the end of the war in 19 BBY, Loorne, along with five other Jedi and a contingent of clone troopers under the command of Clone Commander Salvo, was dispatched to invade the Outer Rim planet Murkhana, home to the Confederacy-allied Corporate Alliance. The Republic task force was ordered to rendezvous in the Murkhana system, and after one week, they began their attack. Upon touching down on the planet in LAAT/i gunships, the Republic troops were greeted by Confederate rocket fire, but Loorne survived the attack. When Master Roan Shryne reached out for Loorne with the Force in order to find out if the Jedi Master was still alive, Loorne answered him affirmatively. After successfully landing on the surface, Republic and Separatist troops engaged each other in combat. In the midst of the battle, the clone troopers received Order 66&mdash;a dispatch for all clone troopers to slay their Jedi officers. Loorne and the two Jedi Knights who accompanied him were ambushed and executed by clones of the 22nd Air Combat Wing. The bodies of Loorne and the two Jedi Knights were later shown to the Sith Lord and Imperial Executor Darth Vader, during his visit to Murkhana, by Commander Salvo. The Commander also gave the lightsabers of the Jedi to Vader, who then ordered Salvo to dispose of the bodies. Saras Loorne, a Force-sensitive male, possessed the knowledge and skills required to become a Jedi Master, and was placed in command of the Murkhana mission above Masters Shryne and Bol Chatak. However, he was unable to defend himself against the clone troopers, resulting in his death. Saras Loorne first appeared in the 2005 novel Dark Lord: The Rise of Darth Vader, written by James Luceno. Loorne later received an entry in The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia, albeit he was mistakenly named "Sares Loorne." *Dark Lord: The Rise of Darth Vader *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Individuals of unspecified species Category:Jedi Generals Category:Jedi Purge victims Category:Males Category:Post-Ruusan Jedi Masters