25831
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/True_Way
True Way
3881

The True Way or True Path was the religion of the Yuuzhan Vong. It was the only documented set of religious beliefs to originate outside the galaxy. It was also one of the most violent, intolerant, and doctrinally uncompromising religions ever recorded. After the defeat of the Yuuzhan Vong in 29 ABY, it was outlawed by the Galactic Federation of Free Alliances. Yuuzhan Vong religion was centered on the worship of all life, though the immense number of deaths caused by the Yuuzhan Vong during their invasion of the galaxy led many to question this. The Yuuzhan Vong worshipped life to such a degree that they considered all mechanical devices to be blasphemy. The Yuuzhan Vong used living technology, which they believed to be a gift from their gods, the Yun'o. It was the intense devotion to their gods that led to some of the worst horrors the galaxy ever witnessed. The Yuuzhan Vong believed that the Yun'o had given them the galaxy in exchange for cleansing it of all "infidels." Pain and sacrifice were also very important aspects of Yuuzhan Vong religion and society. According to Yuuzhan Vong myth, Yun-Yuuzhan, the Creator God, sacrificed parts of his body in an intensely painful manner to create the universe, the other gods, and the Yuuzhan Vong. To the Yuuzhan Vong, life was pain itself in separation from Yun-Yuuzhan and death was simply rejoining Yun-Yuuzhan, though others argued that the Yuuzhan Vong worshipped pain due to the pain they inflicted on non-adherents. The other deities contributed to forming their society. Yun-Yammka, the God of War (in truth a concoction of the Priest caste), demanded that the Yuuzhan Vong make blood sacrifices and sacrifice body parts to honor Yun-Yuuzhan. Yun-Harla, the Goddess of Deception, taught the Yuuzhan Vong the value of physical alteration from other creatures brought them closer to Yun-Yuuzhan. Yun-Ne'Shel, the Goddess of Life, represented the creation of new things and the Yuuzhan Vong followed her example. *The New Jedi Order: Vector Prime *The New Jedi Order: Dark Tide II: Ruin *The New Jedi Order: Agents of Chaos I: Hero's Trial *The New Jedi Order: Agents of Chaos II: Jedi Eclipse *The New Jedi Order: Balance Point *The New Jedi Order: Traitor *The New Jedi Order: Destiny's Way *The New Jedi Order: The Final Prophecy *The New Jedi Order: The Unifying Force Category:Religions