25941
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/G%27aav%27aar%27oon
G'aav'aar'oon
2658

G'aav'aar'oon was a location known for its cathedrals.SkyeWalkers: A Clone Wars Story G'aav'aar'oon was first introduced in the roleplaying adventure "The Nuns of G'aav'aar'oon", which was published in the roleplaying magazine Challenge without Lucas Licensing approval and thus is considered non-canon. It was later canonized by its inclusion in the story SkyeWalkers: A Clone Wars Story. G'aav'aar'oon was an asteroid located in the Vodilux Star Cluster. It had once been a Jedi fortress that was renowned for its elegant cathedrals until it destroyed during the Clone Wars. The ruins of the fort were turned into a convent by a group of female Gamorrean Force-sensitive healer nuns who soon took on the name the Nuns of G'aav'aar'oon. The convent itself occupied only a portion of the asteroid, and the rest of the old Jedi base contained a small hotel for visitors, several public chapels, all the docks and machinery needed by any asteroid base, and several kilometers of abandoned tunnels, which contained some mynocks and other vermin that kept standard visitors out of the areas. All of the old base's weapons were ruined, dismantled, or permanently deactivated, and the Nuns had no intention of rearming them. Soon after the Battle of Yavin, Imperial Scouts sent by Darth Vader attempted to frame the Rebel Alliance for the murder of the nuns' leader, Mother Grotrugga. Unfortunately for them, Grotrugga became a Force ghost, informing her sisters that it was in fact the Galactic Empire who murdered her. Because of this, the nuns invited the Alliance to make use of the peaceful asteroid, though they were adamant that it would not be used as a military outpost. Many Rebels took use of the asteroids facilities, taking short breaks at the convent to revitalize themselves both spiritually and psychologically as well as to recover from the trauma of war. *SkyeWalkers: A Clone Wars Story Category:Locations of unspecified type