25918
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Star_Wars:_The_Jedi_Academy_Trilogy
Star Wars: The Jedi Academy Trilogy
10791

Star Wars: The Jedi Academy Trilogy is a book trilogy written by Kevin J. Anderson and published by Bantam Spectra from March 1994 to October of the same year. The novels are Jedi Search, Dark Apprentice, and Champions of the Force. The books tell the story of Luke Skywalker's attempt to resurrect the Jedi Order on Yavin 4, and his search for possible Jedi candidates. There are several stories told throughout the three books. The main plot is that of Exar Kun's spirit attempting to turn Luke's trainee Jedi, he kills one of them and turns Kyp Durron who goes on a rampage with the Sun Crusher. The Jedi trainees eventually destroy Kun and Kyp is brought back to the light by his friend Han Solo. On a diplomatic mission for the New Republic, the Millennium Falcon is shot down over Kessel, and Han Solo and Chewbacca are imprisoned within the grueling spice mines of the forsaken world. Moruth Doole, paranoid administrator of the mines, is afraid the new government will take control of his operations. While imprisoned, Han and Chewie befriend Kyp Durron, a young Force-sensitive who helps them escape the pitch-black tunnels and commandeer an Imperial shuttle. Fleeing Kessel, Kyp uses the Force to navigate a path to safety through the black holes of the Maw and stumbles upon the Maw Installation, a secret Imperial research facility under the command of Admiral Daala. Han, Chewie, and Kyp once again find themselves prisoners. At the Maw Installation, they befriend Qwi Xux, a brilliant but naïve Imperial scientist who was part of the team that helped engineer the Death Star. Han explains to her how her scientific breakthroughs were used for massive destruction. Qwi is shocked by this, and in a conscientious effort to redeem her work she helps the new prisoners escape aboard a new experimental weapon, the Sun Crusher. The weapon is a small vessel protected by nigh-destructible Quantum-crystalline armor and armed with resonance torpedoes that can provoke a supernova in a targeted star, thus wiping out entire star systems. Rather than let such a potent weapon fall into irresponsible hands, the New Republic sinks the Sun Crusher into the depths of the gas giant Yavin. Luke Skywalker sets out to establish a Jedi academy to begin training a new generation of Jedi Knights. Using partial records captured from scattered sources, Luke finds twelve Force-sensitive candidates to train, including Gantoris of Eol Sha, Streen of Bespin, Kirana Ti of the Dathomirian Witches, the cloned Dorsk 81, and Kyp Durron, who exhibits enormous Force potential. Luke sets up his training center in the abandoned temples of Yavin 4, where the Rebels previously hid their headquarters. The New Republic suffers a series of tragedies and setbacks. Mon Mothma falls ill with a mysterious wasting disease and asks Leia to serve in her stead. Admiral Ackbar, while visiting the planet Vortex, suffers inexplicable mechanical failure in his modified B-wing fighter, crashing the vessel and killing hundreds of innocents. Inconsolable, Ackbar resigns his command. Admiral Daala, now aware of the state of the galaxy outside the Maw Cluster, begins a battery of attacks against the New Republic, striking at Dantooine and Mon Calamari. On Yavin 4, the spirit of Exar Kun – a long dead Sith Lord – begins to corrupt Luke's students. First, Gantoris falls to the dark side and attempts to attack Luke and then is utterly destroyed by the Sith spirit. Then Kun possess Kyp. Doing Kun's biding, Kyp attacks and incapacitates Luke, then steals the Sun Crusher vessel, resurrecting it from the heart of Yavin. He wipes Qwi Xux's memories to ensure that the technological knowledge required to build such a device is lost. In a strike of vengeance against Admiral Daala, Kyp uses the Sun Crusher to ignite the stars of the Cauldron Nebula, causing a devastating explosion that Daala narrowing avoids. Kyp, and instrument of destruction, adopts the mantle of Dark Lord of the Sith. Luke's Jedi students band together to protect his body from the dark side and do battle of the spirit of the Sith Lord. Even young Jacen Solo, just three years old, picks up a lightsaber – guided by Luke’s spirit – to defend his uncle. Luke is revived, but the threat of Exar Kun remains. The possessed Kyp next targets the Carida system in his swath of vengeance-fueled of destruction. He comes to the horrific realization that his brother, Zeth, is stationed on Carida. Kyp fails to rescue him before the world is eradicated by the star's explosion. Mon Mothma's illness is a nanovirus engineered by Ambassador Furgan of Carida, who has been using such deceptive measures to unsettle the New Republic. His agent, Terpfen, was subjected to mind control and sabotaged Ackbar's fighter. Luke's student Cilghal uses her Force healing abilities to remove the virus from Mothma's body, but Furgan continues his strikes, this time attacking the planet Anoth, where the youngest Solo child, Anakin, resides. Ackbar and Winter defend the child, and Terpfen, shaking off his programming, kills Furgan. Han Solo is able to reach out to Kyp and get him to surrender. New Republic officials call for Kyp's execution for punishment of his crimes, but he instead takes up arms against Admiral Daala's renewed campaign. She has returned to the Maw and unleashed another experimental weapon against the New Republic – a prototype Death Star. In a final battle over Kessel, adjacent to the Maw Cluster, Kyp uses the Sun Crusher to destroy the Imperial weapon, then drops the Sun Crusher into a black hole before escaping within a messenger capsule. The Kessel operation is in shambles after Daala's attack, but Lando Calrissian sees an opportunity to rebuild it. The spirit of Exar Kun is exorcised from Kyp, and he heals from the ordeal of Sith possession. Daala escapes aboard the Star Destroyer Gorgon and flees into space. Though Mon Mothma is regaining her health, she nonetheless relinquishes her title of Chief of State, bestowing it upon Leia as her successor. In the original outline for the Jedi Academy Trilogy had Mon Mothma died as a result of her infection. Lucasfilm rejected this idea, keeping Mothma alive in books through the end of the New Republic era. In November of 1994, to promote the upcoming release of the Science Fiction Book Club edition of the Jedi Academy trilogy in an omnibus hardcover, the series publisher, Bantam Spectra, released a TV commercial for the series. The later novel I, Jedi was a retcon of much of the action at the Jedi academy, inserting Corran Horn into the storyline and smoothing out parts that did not conform to later continuity. *The Essential Reader's Companion Category:Legends novel series