25956
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Second_Battle_of_Zonama_Sekot
Second Battle of Zonama Sekot
8860

The Second Battle of Zonama Sekot was a battle in 29 BBY which took place at Zonama Sekot, a "living planet" located within the Gardaji Rift of the Outer Rim Territories.Rogue Planet Prior to the battle, Zonama Sekot had produced strange organic ships which could travel faster than most other starships in the galaxy. The Jedi Order was determined to investigate the origins of these vessels and were also seeking the whereabouts of the Jedi Knight Vergere, who had gone missing while on a mission to the planet a year before. Jedi Knight Obi-Wan Kenobi and his Padawan Anakin Skywalker were dispatched to investigate. At the same time, a task force led by Raith Sienar and Blood Carver Ke Daiv were also dispatched to the planet at the compulsory behest of Wilhuff Tarkin, then a political leader of Eriadu and commander of the Republic Outland Regions Security Force. Tarkin sought, in his seizure of the mysterious "living starship"-producing world, political and economic advantages via recognition by the galaxy's rising powers. When Obi-Wan Kenobi and his Padawan arrived at the planet, they succeeded in getting an organic starship crafted, which they named Jabitha. They also discovered that Vergere had been taken by a mysterious alien species from the Unknown Regions known as the Far Outsiders&mdash;actually the extragalactic Yuuzhan Vong. Meanwhile, Raith Sienar's squadron arrived and dispatched Ke Daiv to secure a highly coveted Sekotan starship. Unfortunately, Daiv was rejected by the seed-partners, the necessary sentient basis for the starship's construction. Soon after the news of this rejection had been received, Tarkin's forces converged upon Sienar's, as both the Security Force commander and the famous ship designer, mistrusting one another's motives, had double-crossed the other, which ultimately triggered detection of their presence by Sekot herself. Together they felt compelled, then, to unleash their forces on the living world.Rogue Planet Tarkin's fleet included two Trade Federation cargo haulers and ten light cruisers which served as escorts for the Galactic Republic's Dreadnaught-class heavy cruisers. Swarms of Vulture droids and sky-mines were unleashed on the peaceful world and its settlers. In response, the living world dispatched Zonama Sekotan fighters, though they were outnumbered. During the battle, Anakin and Jabitha Hal&mdash;the Sekotan Magister's daughter&mdash;were captured by Tarkin's forces, which intercepted the Jabitha. However, Obi-Wan and Anakin managed to escape in their seedship, though it was wounded by enemy fire. In the end, Zonama Sekot left the sector of battle and, using its massive hyperdrive system, escaped into the Unknown Regions. The attacking forces were left severely crippled.Rogue Planet Obi-Wan and Anakin flew the Jabitha to the planet Seline, where the living ship died from her wounds. In fact, all Sekotan ships throughout the galaxy, as a result of losing contact with Zonama Sekot, also died. Kenobi and Skywalker's next mission was to the planet Kodai, in which they sought to recover the ancient Sith holocron of King Adas.Rogue Planet *Rogue Planet *The New Jedi Order: Destiny's Way *The New Jedi Order: Force Heretic III: Reunion *The New Essential Guide to Characters *The New Essential Guide to Weapons and Technology *The New Essential Chronology *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia *The Essential Reader's Companion Category:Battles in the Gardaji sector Category:Battles of Zonama Sekot Category:Conflicts during the Great Peace of the Republic