25910
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Hali_Ke
Hali Ke
10239

Hali Ke was a Kaminoan and the senior research geneticist of the cloning facilities on the planet Kamino in Wild Space. During this time, they spent many hours with Mandalorian bounty hunter Jango Fett, interviewing and researching the traits that made him the ideal template for cloning. Ke's research on Fett and other Human subjects led to the Kaminoan penning a memorandum regarding findings from the research, as well as their observations on Humans as a species. The Kaminoan concluded the memorandum by stating the sterility was in fact not achievable for an army of humans, given the species' physiological needs. However, Ke outlined multiple strategies for minimizing any negative effects the ability to reproduce might have on the Grand Army of the Republic, which primarily consisted of training regimens and limiting contact with non-clones. }} In 27 BBY, the Kaminoan Hali Ke was the senior research geneticist of the cloning facilities on the extra-galactic planetThe Essential Atlas Kamino. During this time, Ke penned an internal memorandum that outlined the results of the Kaminoan's research on Mandalorian bounty hunter Jango Fett and of cloning Human subjects. This detailed their extensive research on the society, mentality, and physiology of Humans, which included interviews on a diverse range of subjects, including those performed with a pirate hailing from the Fair Hollis system as well as Kardavan penitents devoted to helping other beings. Contrasting the wide range of mental constructs Humans portrayed, Ke noted that the members of the species were capable of an extraordinarily wide range of ethical and moral diversity, with notable extremes on both ends of the spectrum. The Kaminoan concluded that Humans dominated the galaxy due to their extreme adaptability to become compatible with the wide range of environments they were found in. thumb|left|250px|Ke extensively studied the clones of Jango Fett created on Kamino. During Ke's research, the Kaminoan logged many interview sessions with prime clone Jango Fett, who they felt embodied the contradictions Humans portrayed. They noted Fett's competency in his chosen profession, but when they suggested that Fett lacked morality in a field primarily devoted to killing, the hunter vehemently disagreed. The Kaminoan observed Fett's distain for attachment, while at the same time having the ability to call upon a hundred mercenaries, Mandalorian and otherwise, to assist in the training of what would become the Galactic Republic's Grand Army. Although Ke noted that Fett cared little for the considerable sum of credits he received for his biological assistance in creating the clone army, the Kaminoan wrote that the hunter would gently play with his adopted son, Boba, after returning from a violent hunt. Continuing the memorandum, they cited differences between Fett and his clones that would be introduced. These qualities mentioned by the geneticist included higher lung capacity, increased fast-twitch musculature, improved stamina and recovery times, and minor allergic reactions and astigmatism. The clones were also produced to be more docile and inclined towards team identity, although some of Fett's independence was still expected to unavoidably surface, according to Ke. Ke's research continued to the issue of engineered sterility in the clone army. Citing results from other Human clones engineered by Kamino, including projects for Tarshan Ring Excavations and the Lords of Purala IV, the Kaminoan geneticist concluded that the clones' ability to reproduce was in fact vital to their performance. Ke projected the unusual lack of sterility in the clones would be mitigated by channeling basic Human impulses towards unit cohesion and minimizing the army's contact with non-clones. The Kaminoan also suggested that bioengineered contingency planning should be implemented for behavioral modification, which they noted could be useful if further modification was requested by their employers. Ke concluded by stating that research would persist as Kaminoan geneticists continued to work on a species they considered to be both fascinating and confounding. Hali Ke rose to the rank of senior research geneticist on Kamino and was fascinated by the vast range of physiological and biological contrasts that the Human species portrayed. The geneticist considered the species to be among their favorite to examine, and interviewed and psychoanalyzed a broad spectrum of Humans from vastly different backgrounds, the most notable being Jango Fett. Hali Ke was first mentioned in the 2004 novel Hard Contact, the first novel in the Republic Commando series written by Karen Traviss, which featured an excerpt from the Kaminoan's internal memorandum. The passage was later expanded to include the entire memorandum, which was written&mdash;with the exception of Traviss' portion&mdash;by Jason Fry and was intended to be featured in the 2012 reference book The Essential Guide to Warfare. Although the memorandum did not appear in the book, it was finally released in the Author's Cut of the book on StarWars.com in 2014. *Republic Commando: Hard Contact Category:Biologists Category:Individuals of unspecified gender Category:Individuals with unspecified pronouns Category:Kaminoans