26212
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Content_cut_from_Star_Wars
Content cut from Star Wars
118138

This is a partial list of scenes (some filmed, some in animatic form or merely considered) and dialogues that were either changed significantly during production or not included in any final release of the canon films or TV series. The list also includes yet to be used alternate takes of scenes that made it to the final versions. Deleted scenes for the prequel trilogy were featured on the second disc of their original DVD release, but most of the original trilogy deleted scenes weren't released until the 2011 Blu-ray release. Deleted scenes for The Clone Wars were included on the Blu-rays of Seasons Two to Five. *Luke in the Desert/Tosche Station — Luke Skywalker is in the Tatooine desert repairing a Moisture vaporator, assisted by a WED Treadwell repair droid, when he notices shining objects in the sky. Luke looks with his Macrobinoculars at two ships engaged in combat beyond the atmosphere. He jumps into his Landspeeder. The malfunctioning Treadwell blows a fuse and is unable to follow. Luke speeds off into the desert to find his friends. (This could have cut to the first film appearance of Darth Vader, although the scene is connected via circular wipe to the arrival at Tosche Station in the Blu-ray deleted scene. The next segment would follow R2-D2 and C-3PO ejecting from the Tantive IV in an escape pod.) Luke rushes into Tosche Station excitedly telling his friends about the battle above their planet. He is overjoyed to be reunited with his friend Biggs Darklighter who is on planet leave from the Academy. Camie, Fixer, and Biggs all follow Luke outside to see the battle with Luke's macrobinoculars. The battle appears to have ended and Luke's friends ridicule him for making it all up. (This scene was to come before Princess Leia being led captive before Darth Vader.) The footage has been degraded by poor film storage conditions, but was restored somewhat in the Blu-ray edition. **Other appearances: ***Star Wars "Lost Cut" ***Star Wars: From the Adventures of Luke Skywalker 1977 novelization ***The Marvel Comics adaptation ***The Star Wars Storybook ***Pre-release publicity photographs ***Trading cards (Luke in the Desert only) ***Behind The Magic CD ROM (1998) - silent, monochrome video, degraded quality ***Star Wars radio adaptation (1981) *Luke and Biggs — This scene is a conversation between Luke and his oldest friend, Biggs Darklighter. Biggs has left Tatooine and is on planet leave from the Imperial Academy, where he is training to be a space pilot. Luke's envy of Biggs' success conflicts with his duty to his uncle and his reasons for remaining on Tatooine. Biggs quietly tells Luke that he has decided to join the Rebellion against the Empire. In an emotional exchange, the two young men say their farewells. (This scene was to come between the scene where C-3PO spots a distant Jawa sandcrawler in the desert and the capture of R2-D2 by Jawas in the canyon.) **Why it was cut: The Luke and Biggs sequence was part of the Anchorhead backstory on Tatooine and was cut along with the other early scenes on Tatooine due to slowing down the film's pacing too much. **Other appearances: ***Star Wars "Lost Cut" ***Star Wars: From the Adventures of Luke Skywalker 1977 novelization ***The Marvel Comics adaptation ***The Star Wars Storybook ***Pre-release publicity photographs ***Shown in 1998 at San Diego Comic Con ***Behind The Magic CD ROM (1998) - video, degraded quality ***Star Wars radio adaptation (1981) *The Search for Artoo — R2-D2 has absconded from his new master, Luke Skywalker. Early in the morning, Luke and Threepio rush off in the landspeeder to search for Artoo, with Threepio driving the landspeeder. They talk about Artoo, Ben Kenobi and how angry Uncle Owen is going to be. (The scene belongs at the start of the sequence where Luke and Threepio search for Artoo, before the attack of the Tusken Raiders. The moment was scored with a light version of Luke's theme; the music can be heard at the beginning of the cue "Land of the Sand People" on the original LP and CD configurations, or "Landspeeder Search" in the Special Edition album.) **Reasons it was cut: The landspeeder cockpit sequence had to be filmed against a rear-projection screen and was dropped due to poor quality. **Other appearances: ***Star Wars "Lost Cut" ***Star Wars radio adaptation (1981) *Old Woman on Tatooine — As Luke's landspeeder races into the town of Anchorhead, he nearly runs over an old woman (an unfinished effects shot). *Aunt Beru's Blue Milk — A shot of Beru dispensing the blue milk before she joins Owen and Luke at dinner. *Cantina Rough-Cut — Rough-cut footage of the Elstree Studios location cantina scene taken from the Lost Cut. The footage features some creatures that didn't make the final cut, Jenny sits next to Han and makes out with him, multiple alternate takes and cut lines, the full Paul Blake Greedo confrontation, etc. *Darth Vader Widens the Search — In this short scene, Darth Vader and Chief Bast walk along a corridor on the Death Star. Bast reports that the search for the missing droids has extended to Mos Eisley spaceport. Vader observes that Princess Leia is resisting interrogation and Bast boldly criticizes Tarkin's plan to break her as "foolish." (The scene would have appeared between the scene where Han Solo encounters Jabba the Hutt and the scene where Luke and Obi-Wan find the Millennium Falcon in Docking Bay 94.) **Reasons it was cut: Likely for reasons of time. The scene adds little to the plot. The unfinished scene features David Prowse's voice as Darth Vader from inside the costume. **Other appearances: ***Star Wars "Lost Cut" ***Star Wars: From the Adventures of Luke Skywalker 1977 novelization ***The Marvel Comics adaptation ***Pre-release publicity photographs ***Stills used on trading cards ***The Star Wars Holiday Special (footage redubbed) *Stormtrooper Search — Stormtroopers search the alleys of Mos Eisley for the missing droids. **Other appearances: The Star Wars Holiday Special (footage redubbed) *Alternate Biggs and Luke Reunion — The scene between Biggs and Luke in the Rebel hangar bay lasts longer, involving Garven Dreis speaking of knowing Luke's father when he was just a boy. *The first edit of the film was by John Jympson and referred to as the "Lost Cut." It contained all the footage that George Lucas had shot up to that point, as well as on-set sound effects and a different opening. This rough cut contained a lot of alternate takes that were not used in the final version of the film, plus several scenes that were subsequently cut. George Lucas decided to reedit the whole film to give it a faster pace. Aside from the small amount of still photos that have surfaced and monochrome footage of the cantina, Luke and Biggs on the Behind the Magic CD-ROM, very few people have seen it. The Star Wars Holiday Special borrowed footage for the "Life on Tatooine" segment. The cut has since deteriorated to black and white, but an article about it was published in Star Wars Insider 41. *Additional shot of the Rebel soldiers getting into position. *Vader oversees captured Rebel soldiers aboard the Tantive IV. *Alternate dialogue between Vader and Captain Antilles.The Making of Star Wars: The Definitive Story Behind the Original Film (Enhanced Edition) *There are many short alternate takes throughout Star Wars where Luke appears in his poncho which can be seen in stills and trading cards: Luke in the desert, in the Tusken Raiders' canyon, finding the destroyed homestead and in the hangar on Yavin 4. The only poncho scenes that made the final cut were in Docking Bay 94, on the Millennium Falcon flight from the Death Star, and the arrival on Yavin 4. *Alternate establishing shot of Kenobi's hut and landspeeder parked outside, part of the Lost Cut. *Luke decides not to replace C-3PO's restraining bolt in Kenobi's hut, from the Lost Cut. The scene appears in the film novelization. *Extended dialogue between Luke and Ben inside Kenobi's hut. *Extended conference room scene, with Cassio Tagge expressing his distrust for Darth Vader, referring to him as a "Sith Lord". This was later shown at Celebration 2017. *Extended mourning of Owen and Beru Lars. *Obi-Wan proclaiming "Well, there we are" before describing Mos Eisley to Luke. *One long shot of the landspeeder traveling from the trooper checkpoint to the cantina, part of the Lost Cut. *Ponda Baba was originally supposed to be decapitated instead of losing his arm. Footage of his head bobbing around on the floor was shown at the Cantina Archaeology panel at Star Wars Celebration 2019. This was most likely cut due to a decapitation being more violent than a dismemberment. *A patron of the cantina (Garouf Lafoe) leaves and reports the altercation between Obi Wan, Luke, Ponda Baba, and Dr Evazan to the stormtroopers. The camera follows him out of the cantina. In the final version in the film, he can briefly be seen just before an optical wipe and then immediately outside talking to the stormtroopers as C-3PO says, "I don't like the look of this." This footage can be found on the "Cantina Rough-Cut" scene featured on the Blu-Ray. *Luke is seen haggling over the price he gets for his land-speeder with Wioslea for a little longer than is shown in the film. *Jabba the Hutt confronts Han Solo at the Millennium Falcon. The original scene featured Declan Mulholland as a stand-in actor for Jabba, who was to be later replaced with an alien creature, but the technology at the time was not up to the task of creating it. In 1997, the scene was re-added in the Special Edition with Mulholland replaced by a CGI Jabba, which was enhanced upon in a later release. Additionally, Boba Fett was added in the background.The Star Wars Trilogy Special Edition *Extra shots of stormtroopers searching Mos Eisley. *A shot of a hidden gun on the Millennium Falcon shooting at stormtroopers was cut. This shot was later used in The Empire Strikes Back in the scene where Han, Leia, Chewbacca, and C-3PO reach the Millennium Falcon on Hoth. *Extended Alderaan destruction, including additional dialogue and extra shots of the Death Star Overbridge after Alderaan's destruction, featuring Leia being led away by Darth Vader. *Additional dialogue aboard the Millennium Falcon as it approaches the Death Star. Mark Hamill disliked the lines so much that he begged George Lucas to remove them, which he eventually did. *Extra dialogue during Han and Luke's argument on whether to rescue Princess Leia or not. *Extra shots of stormtroopers heading to their stations. *More footage of Kenobi sneaking around the Death Star in search of the tractor beam. *Obi-Wan's line "You can't win Darth. If you strike me down, I will become more powerful than you can possibly imagine." during his duel with Darth Vader was originally longer with the full line being "You can't win Darth. If my blade should find its mark, you will cease to exist. But I warn you, if you strike me down I shall become more powerful than you can possibly imagine." Most of this longer line is used in the film's novelization and in the Marvel Comics adaptation.Star Wars (1977) 4 *A brief gag aboard the Death Star where after several Stormtroopers run through a corridor, a GNK power droid finds itself alone and scurries off. *A scene in which Han, Luke, Chewbacca, and Leia swiftly make their way past several Imperials without their disguises before reaching the window overlooking the Millennium Falcon. The last few seconds of this scene remain in the film before Leia mentions "You came in that thing? You're braver than I thought". This can be found on J.W. Rinzler's The Making of Star Wars Enhanced Edition ebook. *Luke and Han congratulate each other after the TIE attack on the Millennium Falcon. *Several cut lines of Red Leader Garven Dreis and Gold Leader Jon "Dutch" Vander that were later used in Rogue One: A Star Wars Story.Rogue One: A Star Wars Story *Shots of TIE Fighter pilots running to their ships. *There was additional footage and dialogue of the Rebel pilot John D. He would have been shown having one TIE fighter kill before eventually being shot down. His death still exists on film, with the single line "I'm hit!" *Dialogue of Luke instructing the Millennium Falcon to flee from the Death Star after firing the proton torpedoes. Versions of this dialogue are used in the film's novelization and in the Marvel Comics adaptation.Star Wars (1977) 6 File:EP4 luke watching battle.jpg|Luke watching the space battle File:Anchorhead-old-woman.jpg|Old woman shouting after Luke File:Camie fixer luke biggs1.jpg|Watching the skies of Tatooine File:EP4 luke biggs talking.jpg|Biggs and Luke talking File:LukeBiggs2-MOSW.png|Luke says farewell to Biggs File:LukeMoistureVaporator-MOSW.png|Luke next to a moisture vaporator File:SearchForArtoo-MOSW.png|Piloting the speeder File:Luke poncho2.jpg|Luke wearing his poncho File:Luke_C-3PO-Lost_Cut_SWI14.jpg|Luke decides to not reattach C-3PO's restraining bolt File:LostCutStiltMonster-MOSW.png|A creature at Mos Eisley File:Jenny.jpg|Han in the cantina with Jenny File:Opunmcgrrrr.jpg|Declan Mulholland as a stand-in actor for Jabba the Hutt File:OverbridgeDeletedScene.png|Darth Vader leading Princess Leia out of the overbridge *Han and Leia: Extended Echo Base Argument — Han and Leia continue their argument beyond "You could use a good kiss!" *Deleted Wampa Scenes (These scenes were removed due to the poor-looking wampa costume effects.) **Alternate version of Han and Leia's argument in the hallway where a wampa hand is shown breaking through the ice in the wall. **While fleeing Imperial troops, Han suggests they take a shortcut through a room that has a sign on it. Leia tells him "that's where they keep those creatures" (the Wampas). They run off and C-3PO tears away the warning sign, hoping the troops will mistake it for another room. Sure enough, they do, and one of the snowtroopers is pulled in by a wampa. The other troopers quickly shut the door and stare in disbelief as Darth Vader walks up to them, seemingly just as confused or silently reprimanding them for stopping. (The part in which C-3PO tears off the warning sign appears in the original trailer.) **Rebel troopers attempt to fend off several wampas that have escaped their containment unit during the Battle of Hoth. **R2-D2 wanders down a corridor and narrowly escapes a wampa. *Luke and Leia: Medical Center — After leaving the bacta tank, Luke and Leia almost kiss but are interrupted by C-3PO. Luke tells Leia that he has to go to the Dagobah system. Leia gets angry, explaining that Han was about to leave to pay off unpaid debts for Jabba the Hutt. Leia then says that she would get more loyalty if she went down the hall and recruited some of the wampas. *Luke's Recovery — Luke in the bacta tank, with director Irvin Kershner providing the voice for 2-1B. *The Fate of General Veers — A snowspeeder crashes into an AT-AT Walker commanded by General Veers. (The character later appears in Expanded Universe stories, though the collision which could have resulted in his death is discussed as though the scene had taken place.)The Making of The Empire Strikes Back Enhanced ebook edition, clip here: *Yoda's Test — Yoda trains Luke, who uses his lightsaber to cut up 4 metal bars that Yoda would have been levitating (no audio). This scene was included in the original novelization however. *Hiding in the Asteroid — Han works on the Falcon while the asteroid belt is bombarded by the Empire. *Alternate Han and Leia Kiss — A version of the kiss on the Falcon in which Leia brings Han in for another kiss before they're interrupted by Threepio ("Okay, hotshot"). *Lobot's Capture — Lobot is captured by stormtroopers to be killed. *Leia Tends to Luke — Leia tells Luke about Han's capture by Boba Fett. *The wampa is shown in full form dragging Luke back to its lair (the scene proved difficult to film, due to the costume's effect on actor Des Webb).The Making of "The Empire Strikes Back" *2-1B evaluates a dead tauntaun (seen in background of the final film when Han asks where Luke has gone). *Luke wears a Bacta mask to heal his facial scars. *The Probe Droid shoots down a "snow squirrel" once it emerges from its landing pod (an unfinished effects shot). This was changed to a Wampa in the original Empire Strikes Back novelization.The Making of The Empire Strikes Back Enhanced ebook edition, clip here: *Luke surviving the cold extended. *Additional scenes of the Rebels during the Battle of Hoth. *Several extra snowtrooper scenes, including a shot of one manning an E-Web heavy repeating blaster. *Luke returning to Echo Base amidst the wreckage of the battle.Creating the Worlds of Star Wars: 365 Days *Extended confrontation with the swamp monster on Dagobah. *Extra shots of the bounty hunters on the Executor bridge, extended scenes of Vader talking to them, and a removed subplot of the bounty hunters chasing the Millennium Falcon. *Additional shot of Vader looming over Lorth Needa's body. *Extended greeting between Han and Lando. *A scene of Leia speaking with Ugnaughts. *Extra dialogue and an alternate scene between Han and Leia on Bespin in which they kiss. ("You should wear girls' clothes all the time.") *In the first draft of the script, a scene was included that featured Han, Leia, Chewbacca, and Lando sitting at the dinner table with Vader. Both Han and Leia were to drink wine while Lando feasts himself and Chewbacca sits in silence. Han and Leia would argue with Lando and Vader, the former of whom loses his appetite. The scene was ultimately cut when Lucas rewrote the movie's script. *Extended torture scene, including alternate angles and Vader standing at the doorway to the room. Director Irvin Kershner thought this scene was too dark and scaled it back, while also dialing down the sound of Han screaming in the background.2004 DVD audio commentary for Star Wars: Episode V The Empire Strikes Back *Originally scripted scenes of Lobot were changed after it was decided the character would not speak. *Extended Cloud City escape, with a longer scene of Lando attempting to open a door but finding it locked. In this shot, Lando, Leia, and Chewbacca run in from down the hallway, rather than the turbolift across from the door as seen in the movie. Additionally, the sequence of Lando rescuing Luke was to be longer. File:Leia luke kiss.jpg|Luke Skywalker and Leia Organa about to kiss File:Wampas infiltrate top.jpg|2-1B attends to the dead tauntaun File:Wampa attack top.jpg|R2-D2 escapes a wampa File:BattleOfHoth deletedscene.jpg|Luke returns to Echo Base amidst the wreckage of battle File:Outside the Wampa pen.jpg|C-3PO and R2-D2 outside the wampa holding pen File:ThreepioRipsSignonHothDeletedScene.jpg|C-3PO sets a trap for pursuing snowtroopers, leading them into the wampa pen in Echo Base File:Wampa pen top.jpg|The pursuing snowtroopers enter the wampa pen File:E-web.jpg|A snowtrooper manning an E-Web File:BountyHunters.jpg|Additional shot of the bounty hunters on the Executor bridge File:VaderNeeda-TESB40.png|Vader hovering over Needa's dead body File:Scan Grid.jpg|Han Solo being tortured as Vader watches from the doorway *Vader's Arrival and Reaching Out to Luke — After Darth Vader tells Moff Jerjerrod that the Emperor is coming, Vader goes back to his private chamber and begins to reach out to Luke. Later on Tatooine, as Vader is reaching to him through the force, Luke finishes building his brand new Lightsaber and ignites it for the first time. He then inserts it in a secret compartment in R2-D2's dome. R2 heads out of the cave, then he and C-3PO go to Jabba's Palace. *Rebel Raid on the Bunker — An additional battle in the shield bunker, where Han and Rebel soldiers encounter a squad of stormtroopers outside the control room. Han also reacts to being called "Rebel scum." (This scene was later used as gameplay in the "Triumph of the Rebellion" mission in Star Wars: Rogue Squadron III: Rebel Strike.) *Tatooine Sandstorm — Right after Jabba's Sail Barge blows up, Luke, Han, Leia, Lando, Chewbacca, and the droids go back to the Millennium Falcon and Luke's X-wing (both of which are in the middle of a sandstorm). Han thanks Luke for saving him and Luke explains to his friends that he has to go back to Dagobah. (No dialogue is clearly audible.) *Jerjerrod's Conflict: **Darth Vader Force chokes Moff Tiaan Jerjerrod in front of two Royal Guards to get into the Emperor's throne room. (Vader's lines are spoken by Prowse inside the costume.) A second shot of this scene from an alternate angle exists. **Palpatine orders for Jerjerrod to fire the Death Star's superlaser at Endor in the event that the rebels manage to capture or deactivate the shield generator. Afterwards, upon learning of the shield's deactivation, Jerjerrod reluctantly carries out his command and gives orders to scramble fighters and open power discharge gates to flood certain sectors of the superstructure in order to prevent Red and Gold Squadrons from accessing the reactor core. These scenes were cut due to timing constraints. *Battle of Endor: The Lost Rebels: **B-roll footage of Rebel pilots being fed lines, with three never appearing in the film. These include a Human female pilot, a Sullustan, and a Mon Calamari pilot. The Mon Calamari eventually received an action figure, and was later made canon as Ika Sulko. Another female pilot made it into the film, but was dubbed over with a male's voice. That pilot was nonetheless later revealed to be a female named Sila Kott. **General Crix Madine sitting in the Admiral's chair aboard Home One during the final battle. These scenes were filmed in case the Admiral Ackbar puppet effects did not work properly. Actor Dermot Crowley claims to have spent a few extra days filming in a moving chair shouting things such as "Fire!" **There are cut shots of Rebel troopers rushing around aboard the Millennium Falcon making repairs, including humans and a Sullustan. Among them are Airen Cracken and Blount, who are then seen manning the Falcons laser cannons. The Sullustan was portrayed by Richard Bonehill, who also played Nien Nunb.The Making of Return of the Jedi *A slightly extended version of Darth Vader's arrival in the second Death Star's hangar to speak with Jerjerrod shows more of Vader actually walking down the ramp. This shot was later utilized in the Special Edition of The Empire Strikes Back. *An alternate shot of Greeata Jendowanian and Rystáll Sant reacting in horror to Oola execution. *Luke using a force jump to escape the rancor and hanging from the ceiling grate until two Jawas bang their rifles on his hands, forcing him to let go.The Making of Return of the Jedi Enhanced ebook edition, clip here: The scene appears in the Return of the Jedi novelization and in Return of the Jedi: The Storybook Based on the Movie. A promotional photo of the scene appeared on a Topps trading card. *Peter Diamond wearing some kind of lightbulb suit in Jabba's Palace, as part of the design of an alien supposed to be added later in post-production.I Am C-3PO: The Inside Story *Drunk guests having a party aboard the sail barge. *Barge fight between Ree-Yees and Saelt-Marae with C-3PO translating. *Luke fighting with a blue lightsaber. The blade was later colored green to make it easier to see in front of the blue sky. *After killing Jabba, Leia struggling to reach a nearby blaster pistol (which can be seen in front of her before the original scene cuts), but can't as she is still chained to Jabba's body. R2-D2 then comes to cut her chain, just as in the original film. A still promotional photo and a continuity photo of the scene exist, and it remains in the novelization and the Marvel Comics adaptation of the film.Return of the Jedi 2 *Leia getting a Vibro-lance and attacking a human sail barge gunner before she goes up to the cannon to point it at the deck. Some of the footage can be seen in the final film where Leia moves to pick up the lance before Luke tells her to point the cannon at the deck. A far off view of that full scene being filmed can be found in some behind the scenes footage. Glimpses of the scene can be found as promotional photos, one of which was adapted for a panel of the Marvel adaptation of the film. The scene was also adapted in the second issue of the Star Wars Manga: Return of the Jedi comic series.Star Wars Manga: Return of the Jedi 2 *Vader and several other Imperials walk down a hallway to the hangar where the Emperor will be arriving on the Death Star. Frames of this scene can be found on T-bone's Star Wars Universe website, and a promotional photo featuring the scene appears on a Topps trading card. *Extra scenes of the Emperor walking through the Death Star with Vader, Jerjerrod and his advisors. *The Return of the Jedi Edit Droid Laserdisc featured a silent 59 seconds of R2-D2 repairing Luke's X-Wing on Dagobah and about 29 minutes of Frank Oz being fed lines as Yoda. Among the scenes included the filming of a scene that revealed that Yoda had forbade Obi-Wan from telling Luke about Vader being Luke's father. *Ben's monologue. *Extended Rebel briefing and departure for Endor, including Luke and Leia saying goodbye to Lando before he and Han see each other off. *Vader and Piett peering over the scanning officer's shoulder. *Extra shot of Leia on Endor. *Jerjerrod getting stunned by a Force pike. *Extra shots of the Rebel strike team taking defensive positions outside of the Endor shield generator bunker. *Darth Vader lands in the Death Star docking bay with Luke, taking him to the Emperor. *Luke refusing to fight Vader and throwing him his lightsaber. Vader can be seen holding it along with his own in the final film as he searches for Luke in the throne room. *A teaser trailer for the film (still using the "Revenge of the Jedi" title) and the 1982 theatrical trailer both feature a shot of Wedge Antilles in profile inside his X-wing cockpit as it flies through the Death Star interior. *Extended Rebel and Ewok celebration including Lando hugging Leia along with Han and Luke shaking hands with Wedge. The shot of Wedge and Luke was later re-added into the special edition. File:VadersDescends-RotJAVA.png|Vader exiting his shuttle onto the Death Star File:MoffJerjerrodGreetsVader.jpg|Moff Jerjerrod greets Vader File:LightsaberCave.jpg|Luke constructing his lightsaber in a cave File:Luke rancor pit grate.jpg|Luke hangs above the rancor pit File:Leia_ROTJ_reaching.jpg|Leia struggles to reach a blaster on the sail barge File:Leia deck gunner Return of the Jedi photo 2.jpg|Set photo of Leia attacking sail barge gunner File:Luke and Leia sail barge fight.jpg|Just after Leia's attack on the gunner File:EP6 Tatooine sandstorm.jpg|Arriving at the Falcon in the sandstorm on Tatooine File:Sandstorm-RotJAVA.png|The sandstorm on Tatooine File:Sandstorm deletedscene.jpg|Parting ways in the sandstorm File:EmperorsArrival-SWHC10.png|Palpatine, Vader, Jerjerrod, and his advisors walking through the Death Star's hangar File:RedFiveDagobah-RotJAVA.png|Extra scene of R2-D2 repairing Luke's X-wing on Dagobah File:Vaderchoke.jpg|Vader chokes Jerjerrod File:ROTJ-JerjerrodChokedByVader.png|An alternate angle of Vader choking Jerjerrod File:EndorStrikeTeamDefendBunker-RotJAVA.png|The Rebel strike team take defensive positions outside the shield generator bunker File:ROTJ cut scene - Giant mouse droid.jpg|Luke and Vader arrive at Death Star II File:KilledStormtroopers.jpg|The bodies of stormtroopers after engaging the Rebels inside the shield generator bunker File:ScrewYouStormies-ROTJBR.jpg|Endicott informing Jerjerrod that contact with the shield generator bunker had been lost File:AirenCracken-SWISE2018.png|Airen Cracken manning a gun on the Millennium Falcon. File:Madine btm.jpg|Crix Madine on the bridge of a Mon Calamari ship File:MonCal pilot deleted.png|The Mon Calamari pilot File:SullustanPilot-ROTJCut.png|The Sullustan pilot File:LadyPilot.jpg|The Human female pilot File:Wedge Antilles-ROTJ Trailer.jpg|Wedge Antilles in the Return of the Jedi trailer File:DeathStarTroopers.png|Death Star troopers watching the distance to firing range on Endor tick down *The Waterfall Sequence — Qui-Gon Jinn, Obi-Wan Kenobi, and Jar Jar Binks escape their bongo before it goes over a waterfall. *Dawn Before the Race — Padmé waking Anakin the morning of the podrace. *Complete Podrace Grid Sequence — Introduction to the racers before the podrace, beyond that seen in the film, including an appearance of Ratts Tyerell's family. *Extended Podrace Lap 2 — An extension of the scene, which was partially reincorporated into film. *Anakin's Scuffle with Greedo — Anakin has a fight with Greedo, who accuses him of cheating, and Qui-Gon stops them. *Farewell to Jira — After saying farewell to Jira and giving her credits, Qui-Gon destroys one of Darth Maul's probe droids following them. Qui-Gon and Anakin break into a run, explaining why they are running to the ship in the film. *The Air Taxi Sequence — About ten seconds of additional footage on Coruscant. *Trash Talking Droids — On board the Trade Federation starship, two droids discuss the arrival of the Republic cruiser.Star Wars: The Complete Saga *Extended Podrace Wager — Qui-Gon tries more diligently to expand the wager to include Shmi. *Battle on the Boarding Ramp — Extended fight with Darth Maul on Tatooine, including Darth Maul jumping onto the ship's platform with Qui-Gon before falling off. *Bail Organa of Alderaan — Bail Organa votes for No Confidence in Chancellor Valorum. *The Battle Is Over — A Naboo soldier shows Padmé via viewscreen that the battle droids have been deactivated. *Anakin's Return — Anakin flies his Naboo starfighter back into the hangar. *When Qui-Gon and Obi-Wan are led into the Trade Federation conference room, some exotic bird-like creatures are singing in a cage near the door. When the Jedi notice the room is filling with deadly gas, the creatures drop dead in their cage as a cue that danger is literally in the air. (Included in the novelization). *Obi-Wan arriving on Naboo. *Qui-Gon lecturing Obi-Wan about allowing a lightsaber to die out. *Qui-Gon changing into his farmer disguise onboard the royal starship. *Jar Jar becoming disoriented, being flung onto the walls and tumbling multiple times in the skiff's lower level. *Jar Jar juggling equipment in Watto's shop. *Extended scenes from Watto's Junkyard. *Fode and Beed (the pod race announcer) was originally portrayed by two human heads on a cgi body, however test footage of this version of the character was unworkable and was scrapped for a completely CGI version. This decision was made rather late into production however as the original action figure of the character was the scrapped version. *An extra shot of Qui-Gon lifting Anakin out of his podracer. *R2-D2 was to fall off the landing platform on Coruscant and then fly back up showing that he has booster rockets. (These would later be shown digitally in Episodes II and III.) The scenes featuring the booster rockets were cut due to the practical effects being unworkable. The rocket feature made it onto the action figure however. *Chancellor Valorum confronting Palpatine about the vote of no confidence. *Scenes showcasing Anakin's precognitive powers. *Promotional footage featured a line by Darth Maul saying "Fear. Fear attracts the fearful, the strong, the weak, the innocent, the corrupt. Fear. Fear is my ally." Portions of this were included in a talking Darth Maul mask made by Hasbro. *A promotional image showed Darth Maul fighting Obi-Wan on Tatooine. *Tendau Bendon speaking in the Galactic Senate.Star Wars: Episode I Insider's Guide *A close-up of Adi Gallia sitting in her council chair.Star Wars Character Encyclopedia *A shot of Yaddle speaking, with the other Jedi Council members turned to face her. *Nute Gunray and two other neimoidians escort Darth Maul on Naboo. *Extended Battle of Naboo, including the lightsaber duel in the Theed power generator. (Many of these can be briefly seen during some of the DVD documentaries and original TV spots for the film.) **Darth Maul leaping onto the uppermost catwalk, then they resume the fight. **Darth Maul uses the Force to throw objects at Obi-Wan. **A second angle of Darth Maul kicking Obi-wan during their duel on Naboo.Star Wars Character Encyclopedia **Some versions of the film initially released had Darth Maul falling in one piece in order to satisfy the ratings board. **Daultay Dofine's line, "Impossible! Nothing can get through our shields." was originally supposed to happen directly before the ship exploded. File:TPM-ObiWanNaboo.png|Obi-Wan arriving on Naboo File:The Waterfall Sequence.jpg|The waterfall sequence File:TPMQuiGonExtended.png|Qui-Gon in his farmer disguise onboard the royal starship File:Dawn Before the Podrace.jpg|Dawn before the podrace File:TPM-QuiGonWattoDeletedScene.png|Qui-Gon attempts to convince Watto to include Shmi in the wager File:Complete Podrace Grid Sequence.jpg|Ratts Tyerell's family File:Extended Podrace Lap Two.jpg|Extended podrace sequence File:Anakin vs Greedo.png|Anakin's scuffle with Greedo File:Farewell to Jira.jpg|Farewell to Jira TPM-BoardingRampDeletedScene.png|Qui-Gon fighting Darth Maul on the royal starship's boarding ramp File:AlderaanianDelegation.png|Bail Antillies and the Alderaanian delegation File:TendauBendon.png|Tendau Bendon addressing the senate File:YaddleJediCouncil.jpg|Yaddle speaking File:TPMMaulNeimoidians.png|Darth Maul, Nute Gunray, and two other neimoidians on Naboo File:TPMDarthMaulInOnePiece.png|Darth Maul falling in one piece *Padmé Addresses the Senate — Padmé speaks before the Senate and objects to plans to create an army to fight against the Separatist movement. *Jedi Temple Analysis Room — Obi-Wan has the Kamino saberdart analyzed in the Analysis Rooms in the Jedi Temple. The droids are unable to identify the markings. Considering his options, Obi-Wan realizes he knows someone who can help him. *Obi-Wan and Mace - Jedi Landing Platform — Obi-Wan and Mace Windu discuss the mystery of the missing data on Kamino and Anakin's ability to protect Padmé while Obi-Wan boards his Jedi starfighter. *Extended Arrival on Naboo — Anakin and Padmé walk with R2-D2 and discuss her time as Queen on Naboo. *Padmé's Parents' House — Padmé introduces Anakin to her family at her Naboo villa. Anakin can be seen walking with Ruwee through the window. *Padmé's Bedroom — Padmé shows Anakin her bedroom, which has holographic images of her humanitarian work. *Dooku Interrogates Padmé — Anakin and Padmé are brought before Count Dooku, Jango Fett, and Poggle the Lesser and request Obi-Wan's release. Dooku says he cannot do so unless Naboo joins the Separatist movement, giving reasons for why he is forming the new government. *Anakin and Padmé on Trial — The couple is put on trial by Poggle the Lesser, who finds them guilty. *Extended Speeder Chase — Anakin and Obi-Wan share a speeder while pursuing Zam Wesell. Obi-Wan has to remove a flag that gets stuck in the engine. *The Lost Twenty — Obi-Wan and Jocasta Nu discuss Count Dooku and the Lost Twenty. *Anakin's Nightmare — En route to Naboo, Anakin begins having nightmares about his mother. *Anakin and Ruwee — Anakin walks with Ruwee in their garden. *Raid on the Droid Control Ship and Extended Arena Fight **Raid on the Droid Control Ship — Obi-Wan and Mace fight in the arena while Ki-Adi-Mundi, Plo Koon, and a few other Jedi raid one of the landed Droid Control Ships. **The Ground and Air Battles Continue — After Mace beheads Jango, Ki-Adi-Mundi leads the raid of the Control Ship. Many other scenes of arena fighting are seen. **Droids Are Shut Down But Come Back On — Anakin, Mace and Padmé discuss why the droids haven't been deactivated. Ki-Adi-Mundi overpowers the Neimoidians running the Control Ship and turns them off, providing respite in the arena. They then reactivate and continue battling. (Since Episode I, they have had an independent backup system.) All the Jedi who accompanied Mundi and Koon perish, leaving only the two Masters. The outcome of this scene can be partially spotted in the final film, with Mundi and Koon being lead back by battle droids to the remaining group of Jedi during Dooku's offer of surrender. *Anakin Skywalker opens himself up to the Force and meditates in a Coruscant room. *Mace Windu and Yoda talk after a Senate meeting. *Additional shots of Anakin standing guard outside Padmé's bedroom. *Extended dialogue between Obi-Wan and Anakin while outside the Outlander Club on Coruscant. *Extended scenes of Anakin and Padmé's travel to Naboo. *Additional scenes of Anakin and Padmé playing in the field. *A scene of Obi-Wan going back to Jango's apartment and finding it empty. *On Tatooine, while Anakin is searching for his mother, Padmé finds a box of C-3PO's coverings, and at the droid's request, puts them on him. (Lucas decided this took too much away from the main plot and re-shot earlier scenes involving C-3PO with him covered from the start.This scene was featured in Apparently this scene was taken out relatively late, as Hasbro released a C-3PO action figure that included a box of parts to complete him. Ultimately, C-3PO would not get gold plates in the Legends continuity until the day Anakin was knighted.) *Alternate scene of Beru running to the rim of the homestead and alerting everyone that Anakin has returned.Star Wars Episode II: Tatooine Overview Featurette *After Anakin returns to Lars homestead with his mother's body, Beru helps Padmé prepare a meal for him using blue milk. Beru asks Padmé about Naboo; she remarks that she prefers the desert landscape of Tatooine and that she does not like to travel. *Additional dialogue in the Lars homestead of Anakin apologizing to Padmé and her comforting him after he reveals he killed the Tusken Raiders. *Additional dialogue when Anakin and Padmé land on Geonosis, with Anakin grabbing her arm to stop her from leaving the ship and her telling him to let go. *A close-up of Luminara Unduli and Barriss Offee in Chancellor Palpatine's office. *A shot of Bail Organa speaking the line "We must stop them before they're ready." *Extended Jango Fett death, including Fett blocking Mace Windu's lightsaber with his armor. *Extended Battle of Geonosis and the arena battle. Models of NR-N99 Persuader-class droid enforcers had been made for a scene featuring them running over clones. *Shots of Dooku wielding Obi-Wan's lightsaber alongside his own. File:Padme Addresses the Senate.jpg|Padmé forcefully objects to the Senate's plans to create an army to fight against the Separatist movement File:AOTC-SpeederChaseDeletedScene.png|Extended speeder chase through Coruscant File:Jedi Temple Analysis Room.jpg|Jedi Temple Analysis Room File:Obi-Wan and Mace-Jedi Landing Platform.jpg|Obi-Wan and Mace: Jedi Landing Platform File:AOTC-PadmeWakesUpAnakinDeletedScene.png|Padmé wakes up Anakin from his nightmare File:Extended Arrival on Naboo.jpg|Extended Arrival on Naboo File:Padmes Parents House.png|Padmé's Parents' House File:PadmesRoomNaboo-AotC.png|Padmé's Bedroom File:Jango-Count.jpg|Dooku Interrogates Padmé File:Anakin and Padme on Trial.jpg|Anakin and Padmé on Trial File:AOTC-Droid-ship-cutscene0001.jpg|Jedi Attack Droid Control Ship File:JangoFettDeath.png|thumb|Extended Jango Fett death File:AotC Deleted TheLostTwenty.png|Jocasta Nu telling Obi-Wan of the Lost Twenty *Grievous Slaughters a Jedi: Escape from the General — Anakin and Obi-Wan round a corner and find General Shaak Ti being held hostage by General Grievous. Anakin and Obi-Wan are quickly surrounded by Battle droids and Grievous kills Ti with a shiak strike to the chest. Anakin and Obi-Wan have a brief sign language argument over what method they should use to escape, then draw their lightsabers and slice a hole in the floor. They fall down into a the Invisible Hand fuel tank and the surrounding battle droids proceed to take aim, but the experienced Separatist commander orders his troops not to fire in order to prevent the fuel from igniting. As the two Jedi climb out of the fuel tank, B2 super battle droid attempt to follow them but are cut off when Anakin seals the exit shut. The fuel rises to an overload discharge spark gap, and the section of the ship explodes. (This scene was included in LEGO Star Wars: The Video Game, but Shaak Ti is not present and the generator room is not flooded.LEGO Star Wars: The Video Game Due to Shaak Ti's appearance later in the film, this scene is non-canon.) **A variation of this scene was brought into Legends with the first issue of Revenge of the Sith comic adaption, in which the Jedi are confronted by several MagnaGuards rather than Grievous. Shaak-Ti is also entirely absent.Star Wars: Episode III — Revenge of the Sith 1 *Rebel Alliance subplot **A Stirring in the Senate (Bail's Office) — Senators including Bail Organa and Mon Mothma present the movement against the Chancellor to Padmé, sowing the seeds of the Rebel Alliance. **Seeds of Rebellion (Padmé's Apartment) — Padmé suggests bringing the plan to the one Jedi she trusts, but the group agrees to appeal to the Senate first. **Confronting the Chancellor (Palpatine's Office) — The senators, now including Jar Jar, present the petition to Palpatine and Anakin, who is acting as his personal bodyguard. *A Plot to Destroy the Jedi? — Obi-Wan, Mace, and Yoda meet in the Temple to discuss the darkness surrounding Chancellor Palpatine. *Yoda Exiled to Dagobah — Yoda arrives on Dagobah in the final montage. (This scene is mentioned in the novelization.) *Elevator Antics — Anakin and Obi-Wan banter while waiting for the elevator on the Invisible Hand. Additional cut lines include Obi-Wan commenting how elevators never come when you need them, as they block blaster bolts from the oncoming Droidekas; and the Jedi pair mockingly saying "Roger roger" after they defeat the battle droids in the elevator. *Changes to Constitution — Palpatine presents legal changes meant to end the war to Anakin. *Utapau Chase Animatics — The chase between Obi-Wan and General Grievous was supposed to be much longer. The pair raced along a road between the full battle of Utapau. Grievous was supposed to drive his bike through a speeding train. The scene also involved grievous driving in place to fling broken clone trooper at Kenobi and Boga. The pair drive out onto one of the massive turbines overlooking the sinkhole. Grievous drives on the spinning mechanism to make the turbine spin, creating a dividing line between the two adversaries. Grievous speaks into a comlink that he will meet with his fleet in moments. Obi-Wan then uses his lightsaber to sever the blades. However, one of the blades cuts into another turbine, which spins loose breaking the nub of their turbine off. The pair hang off another turbine below. Grievous manages to pull away, but in the process, the turbine breaks off and swings under, cutting the boom in half. Kenobi is hanging onto Grievous' bike. Grievous knocks him loose with his electrostaff, but the Jedi grabs onto a cable dragging from the vehicle. Kenobi loops it around a rock, causing the bike to break apart. The wreckage comes to rest on the landing platform where the General's starfighter is located. Grievous retrieves his blaster but is trapped under the wreckage. Obi-Wan emerges from the darkness and spots the electrostaff sparking by the wreckage, and tries to grab it, but Grievous bursts out of the wreckage, shooting at Kenobi. Kenobi grabs the electrostaff but Grievous flings him around and begins punching him in the face with his metal fists. However, Obi-Wan breaks free and rips out Grievous's gutsack, then blasts it with the blaster. As Grievous falls dead, Obi-Wan gives the body a kick and the general falls in to the pit below. This scenes was cut as it was considered too "gory" for a PG-13 film. Steven Spielberg oversaw the creation of the scene. *Anakin Kills Shaak Ti — Anakin enters the meditation chamber in which Shaak Ti is concentrating and stabs her in the back, before leaving the chamber and walking through the Jedi Temple as it is being attacked (The shot of Anakin walking was featured in the trailer, but with the background replaced with the Invisible Hand walls). Ti's death was later shown in a vision to Yoda in Episode 12 of Star Wars: The Clone Wars Season 6, Destiny, confirming this to be her Canon death. In Legends, however, she managed to escape and run from the Empire for many years, only to be killed by Galen Marek on Felucia in The Force Unleashed.Star Wars: The Force Unleashed *Jedi Imposters at the Temple — When Obi-Wan and Yoda arrive at the Jedi Temple they find a group of clone troopers disguised as Jedi waiting outside. The two Jedi aren't fooled and kill them all. (This scene appears in LEGO Star Wars: The Video Game. The movie includes the second half of this scene, removing the dialogue and using CG to remove the clones' robes and give them 501st helmets.) *Yoda Communes with Qui-Gon — Qui-Gon Jinn speaks to Yoda, who names himself Qui-Gon's apprentice. (This scene appears in the novelization.) *The Coruscant space battle and opening was supposed to be longer. *Anakin and Obi-Wan encounter a pair of Magnaguards on their way to rescue Palpatine. *An alternate version of R2 hiding from the Super Battle Droids. This appeared in the teaser. *Extended duel with Count Dooku. **After Obi-Wan remarks "You won't get away this time, Dooku," Dooku responds by igniting his lightsaber and saying, "Just because there are two of you, do not assume you have the advantage." The short scene with this line is in the Episode III video game. **Lines of Dooku begging Palpatine that he be spared. Christopher Lee considered this to be out of character and George Lucas agreed, ultimately choosing to cut it entirely. Portions of the dialogue appear in the novelization and comic adaption.The Making of Star Wars Revenge of the Sith **An alternate shot of Palpatine grimacing as Anakin frees his arms. *An alternate duel with Count Dooku. **Before arriving at the Chancellor's cell, Obi-Wan gets captured by droids, where he faces General Grievous, so Anakin would fight Dooku alone. Dooku would reveal that it was he who had made the Tuskens kill Shmi. Skywalker becomes enraged and eventually defeats and kills him. *Anakin carrying Obi-Wan on his back and pressing a button to call a turbolift. *Anakin, Obi-wan, and Palpatine unsuccessfully attempt to find a ship to escape with in the Invisible Hand hangar bay, as the artificial gravity shifts again. (The artificial gravity changing for a second time was included in LEGO Star Wars: The Video Game.) *Palpatine's "reception committee" (consisting of Mas Amedda and four Red Guards) on Coruscant. *An extended conversation between Anakin and Obi-Wan when the latter asks the former to spy on Palpatine. *Obi-Wan visits with Padmé to discuss his concerns for Anakin. The scene was not completed as Anthony Daniels had fallen over while filming. *Extended conversation between Padmé and Anakin. *Palpatine thanking Jar Jar for helping put him in power. *Extended fight with Grievous. **An alternate fight sequence that includes many major changes from the final cut. ***When Grievous escapes on his wheel bike and Obi-Wan whistles for Boga, the Varactyl destroys a crab droid with her tail before jumping down, after which Obi-Wan destroys several Super Battle Droids before mounting the creature. ***An extended chase, in which Grievous and Kenobi travel down a highway and hit oncoming vehicles, fly past active battlefronts, and continue through a train tunnel, which forces Grievous to at one point drive through an entire moving passenger train car, crashing into riders. ***Grievous using his bike to spin rocks and body parts of dead clones at Obi-Wan and Boga, and later, spin a giant wind turbine to block Obi-Wan from reaching him. ***Obi-Wan hanging onto a cord trailing from the wheel bike and being dragged along with it, before managing to get it caught on a rock, which breaks the wheel bike apart and sends its pieces flying into the Soulless One. ***Grievous landing several successful punches on Obi-Wan's face. ***Obi-Wan tearing out the General's insides, including his heart, which he proceeds to shoot, killing Grievous, after which he kicks the body off of the landing platform. **Grievous was originally going to try to escape in his shuttle, but Obi-Wan and Boga destroy it (This scene appears in the novel). *Anakin and Padmé have dialogue when looking out their windows. *The fight between Palpatine and Windu underwent many changes during production. **Palpatine's aide Dar Wac and a pair of Senate Guards try to stop Windu and the Jedi, but are pushed with the Force out of the way before entering the Chancellor's office.Star Wars Episode III Revenge of the Sith: Illustrated Screenplay **Anakin originally stood next to Palpatine when confronted by the Jedi. Additionally, in bonus footage on the DVD, Anakin can be seen following closely behind Windu and Palpatine as they duel down the hallway, watching them. **Another version of the duel consisted of Windu arriving alone, with Kit Fisto and Saesee Tiin instead dying during Order 66, and Windu dropping dead when being hit with Force lightning, rather than being launched out of the window.The Making of Star Wars Revenge of the Sith **An second angle exists of Palpatine landing in front of the Jedi Masters after jumping over his desk. **An alternate duel between Windu and Palpatine was shot, and for reasons unknown never released to the media, which shows Palpatine dueling using Anakin's lightsaber. A few seconds of the alternate takes were used in the final film as the hilt can be seen for the briefest moment at least once, though the blade was edited to be red. The scene is considered to be a piece of lost media, though it briefly appeared in the Revenge of The Sith deleted scene commentary through an amateur camera shot of the scene being filmed as Lucas explains it. **Windu attempting to defend himself with his remaining hand. *Extended Order 66 and Temple Purge. **A completely alternate sequence features the deaths of Barriss Offee, who, while fighting on Felucia, is shot by an All Terrain Tactical Enforcer from behind, which proceeds to step on her body; Luminara Unduli, who is quickly surrounded by her troops and gunned down; and Quinlan Vos, who is riding in a convoy of HAVw A6 Juggernauts when the one in front of him suddenly stops and opens fire on his. Other differences from the final sequence include the Separatist attack on Kachirho beginning after Palpatine executes Order 66, with wookiees jumping inside the oncoming tank droids and killing their droid drivers; Ki-Adi Mundi being killed on Kamino instead of Mygeeto; Aayla Secura and Bly having dialogue; Plo Koon and his clone wingmen speaking prior to the latter shooting at the former, who ejects from his starfighter but gets shot in mid air; Stass Allie noticing the clones riding with her pull back, before being fired upon; and Gree attempting to kill Yoda being replaced with Yoda witnessing Unduli's death, which is what causes him to drop his cane. Additionally, various shots of Yoda sensing the Jedi dying, along with Palpatine also sensing them, but smiling, are interlaced between the various Jedi deaths. ***Unduli and Offee's deaths were made official in the Legends comics Republic 82 and Star Wars: Episode III — Revenge of the Sith 3 respectively.Republic 82 The latter also includes the dialogue between Secura and Bly.Star Wars: Episode III — Revenge of the Sith 3 In Canon, Offee became an Imperial Inquisitor after Order 66, while Unduli was captured and executed later, rather than being killed immediately, as revealed by Dave Filoni in an interview with IGN. ***Vos' inclusion was due to the character catching George Lucas' eye in a comic. Though his appearance was ultimately cut from the movie, Lucas went on to allow Vos to survive when his fate in Legends was left up to Lucas' decision. Vos is confirmed to have also survived in Canon, in the Obi-Wan Kenobi television series. **Extended footage for the deaths of Whie Malreaux, Bene, and Cin Drallig, featuring more shots of Anakin dueling with Drallig. **The trailer contains the shot of Ki-Adi Mundi turning around in disbelief, but rather than being a fair distance away from the bridge, as seen in the final film, he is instead standing directly on it. **The shot of Padmé crying featured in the trailer shows more of her apartment in the background. *After being shot down by his troops, Obi-Wan evades a Nos monster in the depths of Utapau. The Nos Monster attacks several Republic seeker droids, while Obi-Wan sneaks past some baby Nos Monsters. ("The Nos Monster") This scene appears in the novelization only. *Extended footage of a pair of clones on AT-RTs examining a crashed Wookiee fighter. Yoda emerges from the wreckage as a silly creature and the two dead wookiees, revealed to be Chewbacca and Tarfful ambush the clones. Yoda was also supposed to ride on a "Can-Cell" to his escape pod. *Obi-Wan, Yoda, Bail, and his deputy enter the Senate. The senate guard asks them for permits, but says it is a Jedi detention order. Kenobi tricks him with the Force and says he can stay with the senator, however, later Obi-Wan and Yoda go to the Temple (This scene appears in the novelization). *The shot of Obi-Wan kneeling down over a dead Youngling, asking Yoda who could've killed them featured a different background in the trailer. *Extended Separatist Slaughter, including the Separatist Council entering the war room, Nute Gunray ducking under the conference room table, and the Neimoidian Guards along with Wat Tambor being killed by Anakin Skywalker. **Additionally, Rune Haako was supposed to be killed in the conference room, as seen by his body during the duel between Skywalker and Kenobi. *Extended Obi-Wan's visit with Padmé after learning of Anakin's fall to the Dark Side (This scene appears in the novelization). *More scenes with Captain Typho. *An alternate duel between Yoda and Palpatine, which was set to occur immediately after the latter and Anakin's hologram call. Sidious is the first to attack, launching a bolt of Force lightning, but Yoda grabs the Red Guards and uses their bodies to block it. Palpatine launches another attack, throwing the Jedi into a wall, but Yoda recovers and knocks the Emperor to the floor with a flying kick. Here, the fight is interwoven with Padmé's reunion with Anakin on Mustafar. As the duel moves to the Senate Chamber, cam droids start recording and broadcast it to large holoscreens in the ceiling of the Senate Chamber. When Palpatine is blasting Yoda with lightning on a floating pod, Yoda manages to redirect the lightning to a camera droid, hitting the Sith Lord from all directions and knocking him off. Additionally, Palpatine uses Force lightning to blow open the roof and escape on a Senate pod, right before arriving clone troopers shoot at Yoda. *Vader levitating Padmé in the air while choking her. *R2-D2 and C-3PO help Padmé onto her ship. *An extended duel between Obi-Wan and Anakin. **An alternate sequence with many differences from the final cut. ***Anakin wields a red lightsaber. ***Anakin uses the Force to throw steel beams at Kenobi. ***As the enemies are dueling on the collection pipes, Obi-Wan falls onto the pipe below Skywalker's own, throws his lightsaber into the air, and brings the latter down to his level. Anakin cuts that pipe and they use the broken ones to swing to the main collection plant. ***Extended fighting on the piece of machinery floating down the lava river, which Anakin and Obi-Wan, at the end, jump off of at the same time. ***A "cat and mouse" chase using the two platforms they land on, which are shown to be pilotable by leaning in a certain direction. ***Anakin's maiming being a result of him jumping on Obi-Wan's platform, dueling, and going in for an overhead strike. Obi-Wan notices his legs are undefended and quickly slices them off, causing him to fall to the bank of the lava river, next to them. **Obi-Wan using Anakin's lightsaber, along with his own. **At one point, the pair were to fight along the edge of a cliff. **Slightly extended shot of the volcano erupting. **The duo team up and fight a being known as the Mustafar Monster, which can be seen in concept art.The Making of Star Wars Revenge of the Sith **The two throw lava at each other with the Force. **While lying on the bank of the lava river, Anakin was supposed to ask Kenobi for help, to which the latter declines, resulting in the former's eyes turning from blue to yellow. *The Naboo star skiff shown flying off from Mustafar to Polis Massa. This scene was featured in the teaser. *Additional footage of Emperor Palpatine's shuttle leaving Mustafar and arriving on Coruscant, along with two V-wings. *Padmé's scene of giving birth to twins would have been longer. *Dialogue between Palpatine and a surgical droid. *Darth Vader initially had his arms raised up while on the table, however they were digitally lowered to where they are in the final film. This appeared in the teaser. *Vader creates a whirlwind of destruction that causes droids to implode and fires to ignite. *An alternate version of Obi-Wan delivering Luke to the Lars Homestead that was shot during the production of Attack of the Clones. File:Grievous Slaughters a Jedi.jpg|Grievous Executes Shaak Ti File:Sithdelscener1pic2.jpg|A Stirring in the Senate File:Seeds of Rebellion.jpg|Seeds of Rebellion File:AmidalaPapanoida-RotSCut.jpg|Padmé Amidala sitting beside Chi Eekway Papanoida File:Confronting the Chancellor.jpg|Confronting the Chancellor File:Palpatine and Anakin.jpg|Anakin acting as Palpatine's bodyguard File:A Plot to Destroy the Jedi.jpg|A Plot to Destroy the Jedi? File:AlternatePalpyDuel-RotSDeletedScene.jpg|Anakin standing next to Palpatine as the Jedi confront him File:CinDrallig.png|Anakin dueling with Cin Drallig ROTS-DisguisedClonesDeletedScene.jpg|Disguised clone troopers outside the Jedi Temple File:Clone in Jedi disguise.jpg|A clone trooper in Jedi disguise File:Nute rune.jpg|Nute Gunray and Rune Haako entering the war room File:Seps guards.jpg|Anakin killing the neimoidian guards File:Sepslaughter.jpg|Extended Separatist slaughter File:Vader and Tambor DB.png|Vader about to kill Wat Tambor File:Anakinwat3tf.jpg|Wat Tambor is killed File:AwayfromMustafar.jpg|Away from Mustafar File:Theta at Coruscant.jpg|Arriving at Coruscant File:Exiled to Dagobah.jpg|Exiled to Dagobah File:YodaLandsonDagobah.jpg|Yoda leaving his escape pod *Through the Tanks — Anakin and Ahsoka make their way past tanks using the crate, briefly losing it. *Rancor Pit — Anakin and Ahsoka (carrying Rotta) are confronted by Ventress and her battle droids. As she approaches them, R2 activates a trap door through which everyone drops into a pit. Anakin duels Ventress while Ahsoka cuts the droids down. Ahsoka then finds a way out, but unleashes a jungle rancor. Skywalker and Ventress fight on top of the beast until Ahsoka stabs it between the eyes, resulting in the rancor falling on Ventress. R2 then takes out the last battle droid, and they leave. Ventress stings the jungle rancor, making it jump up. *Platform Droid Fight — Anakin calls for a gunship. However, as it lands, it is shot down, and a vulture droid attacks. Ahsoka and Anakin fight the vulture droid until Anakin cuts off its head. *Cargo Bay — As Anakin, Ahsoka, and Rotta escape aboard the Twilight, Anakin orders Ahsoka to empty the cargo bay. Ahsoka goes back there, where she begins to fall out but is able to hold on to a cable. The cargo then destroys several vulture droids, and Ahsoka uses her lightsaber to make the debris spread out to hit them. As Ahsoka returns to the cockpit, Anakin tells her that the bay doors were in front of her. *"Blue Shadow Virus" **The clone ordnance specialists were initially supposed to have different armor, but due to resource limitations, standard clone trooper armor with orange paint had to be used instead. *"Holocron Heist" **Todo Decoding Jedi Temple Shield — Extended scene in which Todo 360 turns off the Temple shield. **Jedi Temple on High Alert — Jocasta Nu warns Ahsoka of the Temple alert status. **Bane Giving Todo Orders — Cad Bane works on cutting through to the communication center while Cato Parasitti talks to him as Jocasta Nu over the comm. *"Cargo of Doom" (Incomplete scenes) **Deleted Vulture Droid Attack — Early layout **Cad Bane Opens Holocron — Alternate ending *"The Zillo Beast Strikes Back" **Strategy in the Jedi War Room — Yoda instructs Mace Windu to retrieve the stun tanks. **Trapped in Palpatine's Shuttle — The Zillo Beast holds the shuttle while Anakin decides what to do and C-3PO despairs. *"Senate Spy" **Padmé Glances Over Shoulder — After walking away from Rush Clovis, Padmé looks back while walking up a staircase. **Alternate Ending Outside Palace — Early layout (Incomplete) *"Weapons Factory" (Incomplete scenes) **Alternate Episode Introduction — Early layout **Barriss/Ahsoka Extended Dialogue — Early layout **Extended Anakin/Luminara Discussion — Early layout *"Brain Invaders" (Incomplete scenes) **Wormontage — Compilation of shots of brain-invading worms going into clones. **Alternate Episode Introduction — Early layout **Medical Frigate Hallway Conversation **Extended Barriss/Ahsoka Battle **Alternate Obi-Wan/Ahsoka Scene — Early layout *"The Deserter" **Commando Droid Snipers — Extended scene of clones on speeders being sniped at by commando droids. **Alternate Edit to Opening Montage — Early layout (Incomplete) *"The Mandalore Plot" **Satine Saves Obi-Wan — Extended scene in which Obi-Wan beats up some Mandalorians and uses the Force to pull some crates over them. **Pre Vizsla Conspires with Count Dooku — Dooku warns Pre Vizsla via hologram not to allow the Duchess' political actions. (Incomplete) *"Voyage of Temptation" **Obi-Wan Destroys Assassin Droid — Extended scene in which Obi-Wan finishes destroying the assassin droid and tells Orn Free Taa to sheath his weapon, actually some meat he was eating. **Alternate Scene of Tal Merrik and Dooku — Early layout (Incomplete) *"Duchess of Mandalore" **Anakin Speaks with Mas Amedda — Anakin discusses the Mandalore mission with Mas Amedda. **Padmé Challenges Mas Amedda — Padmé questions why Satine has been declared an enemy of the Republic, and Amedda announces Anakin will be going early on his mission. **Republic Fleet Ordered to Stand Down — Rex tells Anakin the Senate has voted against occupation, so the troops are ordered to stand down. *"Senate Murders" **Alternate Ending in Senate Hallway — Early layout (Incomplete) *"Cat and Mouse" **Alternate Episode Ending — Early layout (Incomplete) *"Bounty Hunters" **Alternate Embo Death Scene — Early layout (Incomplete) *"R2 Come Home" (Incomplete scenes) **Deleted Scene of R2 and Jocasta Nu — Early layout **Deleted Scene of Space Gunship Rescue — Early layout *"Lethal Trackdown" **Alternate Boba/Mace Ending — Early layout (Incomplete) *"Evil Plans": **C-3PO Reunited with Shiny R2-D2 — C-3PO is upset when he finds out R2 has had a recent oil bath. *"Hunt for Ziro": **Ziro Loses the Bracelet — A subplot in which Sy Snootles gives Ziro a bracelet commemorating their love, which he immediately loses. **Quinlan Finding Snooty's Bracelet — Quinlan Vos finds the bracelet from the earlier deleted scene. *"Ghosts of Mortis": Son Confers with Ancient Sith Lords — The Son talks to Sith Lords Darth Revan and Darth Bane. (Incomplete) *"Padawan Lost": (Incomplete scenes) **Ahsoka Strategizing with Younglings **Sochek's The Big Lebowski Homage — Sochek says he can procure a dismembered toe. **Hunters Discuss the Younglings **Bounty Hunters Hunted **Ahsoka Watched By Trandoshan **Rendered Chameleon Trandoshans — The Trandoshan bounty hunters appear invisible as they blend in with their environments. *"Water War": The Crowning of Prince Lee-Char (Incomplete) *"Prisoners": Kit Fisto at One with the Force (Incomplete) *"Shadow Warrior": Padmé Talking to Grievous — Gungans surround Grievous on Naboo and trap him with energy binds. (Incomplete) *"Mercy Mission": R2-D2 and C-3PO on Aleen — Extended scene (Incomplete) *"Nomad Droids": (Incomplete scenes) **C-3PO Explains Democracy — Extended scene (Incomplete) **Mayhem On The Pirate Ship (Incomplete) *"The General": Umbaran Banshee Attack (Incomplete) *"Slaves of the Republic": Attack on the Queen (Incomplete) *"Escape from Kadavo": **The Queen and Dooku **Bringing The Togrutans Home — Alternate scene (Incomplete) *"A Friend in Need": Ahsoka Fighting Pre Vizsla — Extended scene (Incomplete) *"Friends and Enemies": The Fugitives Have Escaped (Incomplete) *"The Box": (Incomplete scenes) **Cad Bane's Hat — Extended scene **Anakin's Frustration *"Crisis on Naboo": (Incomplete scenes) **Capturing Moralo Eval — Alternate scene **Obi-Wan Was Set Up *"Massacre": (Incomplete scenes) **Ventress Battles Grievous — Extended scene **Zombie Attack — Extended scene **Bombing The Lair — Extended scene *"Brothers": Savage In The Diner — Savage Opress gets angry with a waitress as he looks at a map of the galaxy. *"Revenge": (Incomplete scenes) **Maul's Reunion With Obi-Wan — Alternate scene where Savage comes out with a captive civilian to make Obi-Wan give up his lightsaber, after which Savage activates his lightsaber right through the civilian's head regardless, thus leading to a defenseless Kenobi getting knocked out by Maul. **Ventress And Obi-Wan Vs Maul And Savage Deleted Exchange — Alternate scene **Obi-Wan Agrees To Not Turn Ventress In *"A War on Two Fronts": **Droid Popper Training — A clone instructs the team how to use specialized explosives. Anakin, Ahsoka, and Obi-Wan share their plan. (Incomplete) *"The Soft War": Rebels Talk Strategy — Lux returns to the others and is congratulated. (Incomplete) *"Tipping Points": (Incomplete scenes) **Battle for Onderon — Extended scene **Steela's Fate — Alternate ending *"The Gathering" (Incomplete scenes) **Pushing Beyond Fear — Ahsoka tells the younglings that they should be scared, but to push beyond their fears. **Arrival on Ilum — Extended scene *"A Test of Strength" (Incomplete scenes) **Petro's Skills — Extended scene **Huyang's Lecture — Extended scene **Pirate Invasion — Extended scene *"Bound for Rescue" (Incomplete scenes) **Repairing the Crucible — The younglings repair the starship Crucible. **Huyang Reactivated — R2-D2 reactivates Huyang at the same time Ganodi finishes building her lightsaber. *"A Necessary Bond" (Incomplete scenes) **Gorge Chase — Extended scene **Ahsoka vs Grievous — Extended scene *"Secret Weapons": **Meeting Dr. Gubacher — Extended scene (Incomplete) *"Missing in Action": **Gascon's Gameplan — Alternate scene (Incomplete) *"Point of No Return": **Cruiser Engine Room — D-Squad infiltrates the Venator engine room. (Incomplete) *"Revival" (Incomplete scenes) **Maul's Master Plan — Maul and Savage plan to form an army of people that the Jedi have forgotten. **Anakin's Frustration — Anakin expresses his frustration that he isn't going on the mission with Obi-Wan and Adi Gallia at the Chancellor's wishes. He sees Palpatine who tells Anakin he wants him to act as his bodyguard. *"Shades of Reason" (Incomplete scenes) **Peace Park Rescue — Extended scene. Bo-Katan and several of Death Watch soldiers rescue children from several Black Sun and Pyke mercenaries. **Maul vs. Pre Vizsla — Extended scene *"The Lawless" (Incomplete scenes) **Anakin Loans the Twilight **Palpatine Advises Anakin **Sith Duel — Extended scene of Palpatine fighting Darth Maul and Savage Opress. *"The Jedi Who Knew Too Much" (Incomplete scenes) **Anakin and Padmé — Anakin expresses his anger that Ahsoka has been put on trial for murder. **Anakin Confronts the Council — Via hologram, Anakin asks if the Council if they really believe Ahsoka is guilty. Yoda speaks with him alone and encourages him to save his Padawan. *"To Catch a Jedi": **Anakin and Plo Refocus (Incomplete) *"The Wrong Jedi" (Incomplete scenes) **Tarkin's Accusations — Tarkin delivers Ahsoka to Anakin, Mace, and Plo-Koon, and lists each of Ahsoka's accusations against her. **Chamber of Judgement — Alternate scene **Marching Ahsoka Out — Ahsoka is led away by Jedi Temple Guards and Anakin expresses his outrage to Obi-Wan. Barriss runs into Ahsoka and gives her a hug. **Anakin Confronts Ventress — Extended scene **Trial Arguments — Padmé defends Ahsoka, as Tarkin tries her and Palpatine judges. **Anakin vs. Barriss — Extended scene **Ahsoka's Decision — Alternate scene *"A Distant Echo": **The scene where Anakin objects to risqué nose art of Padmè on the Marauder was removed in the final version and replaced with a scene where Anakin contacts her via hologram. **A scene in which Hunter suggests taking the Marauder is removed. **The brief fight between Crosshair and Rex was originally due to the former showing a lack of sympathy towards Echo being left for dead at the Citadel. *"On the Wings of Keeradaks": **Wat Tambor uses the organic decimator on a Poletec captive. **Tambor refuses to alert the Separatists about Echo's escape. *"Unfinished Business": **Gold Leader originally wore the same style of flight helmet and armor as the clones in Revenge of the Sith. **The scene where the Bad Batch, Echo, and Rex are commemorated for their service in saving Anaxes and given medals and cheers was removed in the final version and replaced with a scene of the Bad Batch leaving, Rex encouraging Echo to join them if he feels more at home and thus Echo being accepted as part of their Squad. *"Old Friends Not Forgotten": **As seen in the trailer, Anakin and Obi-Wan were originally supposed to be called up to the Venator by Rex, rather than Yularen. Additionally, in the final cut, Anakin's dialogue delivery is slightly different and a blue glow from the hologram they are standing in front of was added. File:Bomb Squad Trooper concept.jpg|Concept art for the clone ordinance specialists. File:Darth Revan Clone Wars.png|Darth Revan's model. File:Darth Bane Clone Wars.png|Darth Bane's model. *"Twin Suns" — Alternate scene where Maul sees a Force vision of Satine Kryze and Savage Opress. *Finn and the Villager — Following the death of FN-2003 during the attack on Tuanul, FN-2187 spares the life of a villager. *Jakku Message — At the D'Qar's Resistance base, Major Taslin Brance informs General Leia Organa that Tuanul was wiped out and there was no sign of the map. Brance also told her that Poe Dameron and his droid were missing. Organa orders them to find BB-8 instead of contacting the New Republic. *Unkar's Arm — Unkar Plutt confronts Rey at Takodana Castle and warns her of the trouble she's in. Rey attempts to defend herself but is disarmed by Unkar. Chewbacca steps in to help Rey as Unkar makes fun of him. Angered by Unkar, Chewbacca then steps on Unkar's foot and rips his arm out of its socket which lands on a table in front of Wollivan. *Tunnel Standoff — While escaping Maz's palace, Han Solo, Finn, Chewbacca, and Maz Kanata are cut off by a group of stormtroopers, who wished to arrest them in the name of Supreme Leader Snoke. Solo attempts to talk them out of it, asking "Do you know a Smoke?" and "What makes him Supreme?" He then asks, "Is this something [Finn] did? Is this about the stormtrooper boots?" to which Finn replies "That's how you knew." (This implies that Han realized that Finn was a deserted stormtrooper because of the boots he was wearing.) *Leia and the Resistance — Leia tells her emissary Korr Sella to warn the New Republic to take action against the First Order. *X-Wings Prepare for Lightspeed — Resistance base personnel give Dameron and his pilots the all clear after the Falcon lands on Starkiller Base. *Kylo Searches the Falcon — A squad of snowtroopers and Kylo Ren search the Millennium Falcon. Kylo goes up to the cockpit and then realizes that Han Solo is here. Ren then sees Dameron's X-wings moving in to attack when he walks out. *Snow Speeder Chase — Finn and Rey take a snowspeeder but are pursued by another until Finn shoots the gunner and causes it to crash. *Finn Will Be Fine — After Rey returns to D'Qar with Finn, Dr. Harter Kalonia assures her that Finn will be fine. File:TFA-FinnAndTheVillager.png|Finn aiming a blaster at a villager, before sparing her. File:TFA-JakkuMessage.png|Leia talking to Taslin Brance about the message from Jakku. File:TFA-UnkarPluttRey.png|Unkar Plutt grabbing Rey in Maz Kanata's castle. File:TFA-TunnelStormtrooper.png|Han, Finn, Maz, and Chewbacca being confronted by the First Order in a tunnel beneath Maz Kanata's castle. File:TFA-LeiaResistance.png|Leia asking Korr Sella to travel to the Senate. File:TFA-XwingsLightspeed.png|X-Wings taking off from D'Qar. File:TFA-KyloOnFalcon.png|Kylo Ren enters the Millennium Falcon. File:TFA-KyloRenMillenniumFalcon.png|Kylo Ren standing next to the Millennium Falcon. File:TFA-ReyFinnStarkillerSnowspeeder.png|Rey and Finn piloting a snowspeeder. File:TFA-FinnIsGoingToBeFine.png|Harter Kelonia talking to Rey about Finn and how he will be alright. *Rey starting up her speeder. *Scenes featuring Zuvio, the constable of Niima Outpost. Ultimately, his appearance in the movie was cut to only about seven frames, in total. *A shot featuring the Skywalker lightsaber being handed down to Leia Organa Solo by Maz Kanata in the Resistance Base, as well as the accompanying voice lines from Mark Hamill. *Robert Boulter shot a cameo as Luke Skywalker in Rey's vision sequence for a recreation of the Duel on Cloud City that was also going to feature Darth Vader cutting Luke's hand off. The vision was also supposed to include a boy meeting some version of Snoke, Maryann Brandon said it was cut because the scenes didn't have a logic that anyone agreed with. *A scene in which Leia tells Han that Snoke seduced Ben to the dark side. She admits she didn’t involve Han because she believed he lacked the patience and understanding needed. Leia then tells him it’s not too late to save their son.Star Wars: The Force Awakens (novelization) *Additional footage of Leia. When Carrie Fisher died in 2016, this footage was used in The Rise of Skywalker.The Skywalker Legacy File:ReySpeederStart.jpg|Rey starting up her speeder on Jakku File:CarrieFisherLupitaNyongoDQar.jpg|Lupita Nyong'o and Carrie Fisher film a scene on D'Qar File:MazLeiaSaberDeleted.jpg|Maz handing the Skywalker saber to Leia *An alternate opening in which Luke Skywalker’s severed hand, still gripping his lightsaber, drifts through space and lands on Jakku, where Naka retrieves it. *An appearance of Anakin Skywalker's Force Ghost.The Art of Star Wars: The Force Awakens *The Resistance beginning their attack on Takodanna. *More scenes of Kylo Ren without his mask. *Several lines of dialogue from the trailer were cut, including Kylo Ren saying "Nothing will stand in our way. I will finish what you started", Finn saying "I was raised to do one thing, but I've got nothing to fight for", and Maz Kanata saying "Hope is not lost today. It is found. Who are you?", along with Rey's response, "I'm no one". *A possibly promotional alternate start to the lightsaber duel. }} Rogue One required extensive reshoots late in its production. About 45 scenes that were featured in trailers or TV spots did not make it to the final film. According to director Gareth Edwards, these were simply bits and pieces, not entire scenes removed from the film. RO-SawGerreraWithoutHairDeletedScene.png|Saw Gerrera without hair KrennicStrikeAPose-RogueOneTrailer.jpg|Orson Krennic in the Overbridge RO-VaderOverbridgeDeletedScene.png|Darth Vader RO-KrennicBeachDeletedScene.png|Krennic walking along Scarif's beach RO-TIEFighterDeletedScene.png|Jyn Erso facing off against a TIE Fighter RO-DeathStarPhysicalTapeDeletedScene.png|Jyn carrying a datatape RO-ScarifBeachDeletedScene.png|Jyn, carrying a datatape, getting confronted by an AT-ACT on the beach *Alternate Opening — An alternate opening sequence for the film. After Finn awakens from his coma and realizes that he is aboard a ship, Lieutenant Kaydel Ko Connix tells Poe that they need more time as Resistance members flee in their transports, leading to the battle during the Evacuation of D'Qar against the First Order Dreadnoughts. *Paige's Gun Jams — A scene during the battle over D'Qar where Paige's gun jams while she is in the Cobalt Hammer. *Luke Has a Moment — Following the scene in which Luke Skywalker asks Rey and Chewbacca what happened to Han Solo, he returns to his hut and grieves the death of his brother-in-law while Leia does the same aboard the Raddus. *Poe: Not Much of a Sewer — A conversation between Poe Dameron and Finn aboard the Raddus in which Dameron would have revealed he stitched up Finn's jacket following the Battle of Starkiller Base, sewing up in the process the gaping hole that was left by Kylo Ren's lightsaber. *It's Kind of Weird That You Recorded That — After recovering from his injuries in the bacta tank, Finn sees Rey's goodbye to him following the destruction of Starkiller Base recorded by BB-8. *The Caretaker Sizes Up Rey — The Caretakers meeting with Rey at Ahch-To and starting to take displeasure from her antics as she followed Luke for her first lesson. *Caretaker Village Sequence — Rey's third lesson: After Rey spots boats sailing towards the Caretaker village, Luke notes that they are raiders who are arriving to ransack the village, causing Rey to go to the village only to have Luke saying that if Rey attempts to retaliate, the raiders, with more reinforcements, will return to attack again, because a Jedi would let this to play out without getting involved. Rey charges into the village anyway and sees a cheerful Lanai reunion instead. *Extended Fathier Chase — An extended version of Finn's and Rose's escape from the racetrack with the fathiers. After escaping from the Canto Casino, the fathiers would have crashed against several other locations, including Zord's Spa and Bathhouse. *Mega Destroyer Incursion – Extended Version — After Finn, Rose, BB-8, and DJ infiltrate the Supremacy, once they enter an elevator, Finn meets 926, a fellow stormtrooper who knew him from his days serving the First Order. Unaware of Finn's defection from the Order, 926 congratulates him for his "ascension" and gives Finn a friendly swat on the posterior. Elsewhere in the destroyer, Kylo Ren awaits Rey's arrival. *Rose Bites the Hand That Taunts Her — After DJ's betrayal, when General Hux starts to taunt Rose and Finn for their failures, Rose bites Hux's hand, shaking him up until he gives the execution order and walks away. *Phasma Squealed Like a Whoop Hog — An alternate fight sequence for Finn and Captain Phasma. Cornering Finn with the help of her fellow stormtroopers at a moving platform after Finn breaks the eye part of her helmet, Phasma prepares to finish off Finn, only to have him reveal her betrayal at Starkiller Base when she disabled the shields to save her own life. As she notes that the stormtroopers are uncomfortable with Finn's revelation, Phasma shoots them before they can do anything, but before she can shoot Finn, he cuts her hand off, prompting her to knock Finn aside with her baton. Just when she prepares to give Finn a final blow saying that he was always "scum," Finn responds, "Rebel scum" and shoots her with one of the dead stormtroopers' weapons. *Rose & Finn Go To Where They Belong — Finn and Rose aboard a shuttle, and when Rose asks Finn where they are going, Finn answers that they are going to go to Crait to help the Resistance, which is where they belong. *Rey & Chewie in the Falcon — During the Battle of Crait, Rey and Chewbacca fly the Millennium Falcon and see the First Order attacking a concentrated point on the ground where Luke is standing. It is unknown whether they knew that Luke wasn't physically there. *The Costumes and Creatures of Canto Bight — Though necessarily not a deleted scene, this sequence is a compilation of unused footage from the scenes at Canto Bight, which showcases the creature designs and the impressive sets that went into making the location from the final cut of the film. *The Battle of Crait originally included All Terrain Heavy Scout walkers. Although they never made it past concept art, a LEGO set featuring the walker was made.The Art of Star Wars: The Last Jedi TLJ-LukeMourningHanSolo.png|Luke Skywalker inside his hut, mourning Han Solo. Festival of Return.png|Rey charging into the village only to find a cheerful reunion. TLJ-StarDestroyerElevatorScene.png|Finn, Rose, and DJ disguised as First Order officers, standing inside an elevator, nervous after a bunch of stormtroopers got on with them. TLJ-GeneralHuxAndRose.png|Hux, waving his hand around, taunting Rose. TLJ-PhasmaFinnExtendedScene.png|Phasma noticing her troops' reactions to Finn revealing her betrayal. TLJ-ReyChewieFalconDeletedScene.png|Rey and Chewbacca noticing the First Order firing upon Luke Skywalker's Force Projection. *Proxima's Den — Qi'ra sticks a knife at Solo. After Solo and Qi'ra make plans to leave Corellia, Solo is brought to Proxima's pool. *Corellian Foot Chase — As Solo and Qi'ra make their escape, they hide in a barrel of eels, that covers their scent from Moloch and his Corellian hounds. *Han Solo: Imperial Cadet — Solo disobeys orders to jettison and instead crashes his TIE fighter. Solo, after receiving a eye wound, is then court-martialed by Commodore Almudin in a tribunal. Han attempts to defend, but is found guilty and is assigned to the infantry on Mimban. *The Battle of Mimban (extended) — Solo, alongside Beckett and his gang posing as mud troopers, fight the Mimbanese. Beckett gives Solo a different blaster and tells Solo to cover him. As Korso continues to fight he is badly wounded by an explosion. Beckett then pulls him back to shelter, but Korso dies. *Han versus Chewie (extended) — In this version, after Solo speaks Shyriiwook, Chewbacca uses Han to try and break the pillar. Chewie gives up this attempt until Solo forces him to charge at the pillar. *Snowball Fight! — On their way to meet Dryden, Solo and Chewie get into a snowball fight until Beckett tells them to stop and follow him. *Meet Dryden (extended) — Dryden gives Solo some Thwip feet that he eats as Beckett and Dryden talk about Nest's interference. *Coaxium Double-cross — Solo asks one of the villagers on Savareen if they have extra cases as Dryden's ship arrives. *A scene featuring Han Solo and Chewbacca riding Kod'yok atop the 20-T Railcrawler conveyex transport was filmed but was cut because the scene ran to long. File:Solo-HanAndQuiraDeletedScene.png|Han talking to Qi'ra about leaving Corellia File:Solo-HidingInABarrelDeletedScene.png|Han and Qi'ra hiding in a barrel of eels File:Solo-TieFighterDeletedScene.png|Han piloting a TIE fighter File:Han Solo Trial.png|Han's tribunal File:Solo-KorsoDeletedScene.png|Korso fighting on Mimban File:Solo-HanChewieDeletedScene.png|Chewbacca using Han to break the pillar File:Solo-SnowballFightDeletedScene.png|Han and Chewbacca getting into a snowball fight File:Solo-MeetDrydenDeletedScene.png|Han eating Thwip File:Solo-CoaxiumDoublecrossDeletedScene.png|Han asking a villager for more cases as Dryden arrives Unlike the previous eight main Star Wars films, The Rise of Skywalker did not include deleted scenes on its DVD release, and as such, no deleted scenes have been officially released to the public. *Hux and Pryde on Mustafar. *Kylo Ren battling Alazmec warriors at Fortress Vader and meeting the Eye of Webbish Bog on Mustafar. *Alternative takes of Finn sinking into the sand on Pasaana, wherein Finn outright tells Rey he is Force-sensitive. *A scene with Boolio imprisoned aboard the Steadfast. *A torture scene between Kylo Ren and Chewbacca that was considered too dark to be in the final movie. File:Webbish_Bog.jpg|Concept art of the Eye of Webbish Bog File: Chewie-Torture.jpg| Concept art of the Chewbacca torture scene *There was originally a scene that provided more information about Palpatine's return and what was keeping him alive, but it was ultimately removed. According to Maryann Brandon, it "seemed to go off topic." She explained that the film already contained a large amount of information and many characters, and the team did not want to clutter it with elements the audience did not need to know. *Extended scenes of Rose Tico. *A scene featuring Kylo Ren paying respect to Vader's mask.The Skywalker Legacy *Palpatine's broadcast. This was shown in the video game Fortnite. *Extended hyperspace skipping. *Extended repairs of Kylo Ren's mask. *Extended Knights of Ren search on Pasaana. *Extended search for Rey on Pasaana. *Extended activity on Kijimi. *Pryde wielding his swagger stick. *More scenes on Kef Bir. *Leia holding Han's medal on her deathbed. *Leia and Luke's duel extended. *Lando and Chewie leaving for Exegol. *Extended shot of the Citizens' fleet arriving at Exegol. *"Chapter 14: The Tragedy" — A scene of Boba Fett meeting Greef Karga on Nevarro.https://vocal.media/futurism/check-out-this-deleted-boba-fett-scene-from-mandalorian-season-2 *"Chapter 24: The Return" — A scene of Moff Gideon seeing his destroyed clones. https://www.inverse.com/entertainment/mandalorian-season-3-deleted-scene-clones *"Rix Road" — At the end of Maarva Carassi Andor's monologue, she originally said "Fuck the Empire", but the line was dubbed over to instead say "Fight the Empire". First 'Fuck the Empire'|author=Rob Bricken|date=2022-11-30|work=gizmodo.com|archivedate=20230531234025}} }} Category:Cut content Category:Films Category:Real-world lists Category:Star Wars culture