26302
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Poodoo
Poodoo
26418

Poodoo was a Huttese swear word. Poodoo was a swear word in Huttese. It translated to Basic as "fodder." It could also mean "nonsense," such as "the poodoo coming out of your mouth"Bounty Hunters 24 or "that's a bunch of poodoo";Servants of the Empire: Edge of the Galaxy something of low quality, e.g. "Buy new droid. This one poodoo."; or refer to someoneBounty Hunters 12 or something that a person disliked. The phrase "in deep poodoo" meant being in a lot of trouble,Han Solo & Chewbacca 10 while "beat the poodoo out of" referred to giving a severe beating to.Brotherhood "Poodoo runs downhill" referred to having to deal with a problem that someone of higher rank created.Heir to the Jedi "Go poodoo" meant to deteriorate, go awry, e.g. "The water gone poodoo." After participating in a monopod race on Tenoo in 232 BBY, the Dug racer Jaj Omie took a break at Pit Row. There, a pit droid laden with boxes accidentally collided with him, which led to the droid dropping the boxes and prompted an irritated Omie to exclaim "poodoo!" In c. 232 BBY, the thief Tooba Jinx stole a squork from Ace Kallisto, but with the assistance of Ansen Strung and a few Jedi Initiates, Kallisto managed to reclaim it. Defeated, Jinx grumbled "poodoo!" and cautioned that their luck wouldn't hold in the future. In 230 BBY,Star Wars: Timelines when Leox Gyasi's starship Vessel got stranded at the Starlight Beacon, his fellow pilot Koley Linn claimed that Gyasi was stuck at the Starlight because his "poodoo ship" had broken down, again.The High Republic: The Fallen Star The following year, Zeen Mrala, in search of a hint about the location of the missing Padawan Lula Talisola, reviewed a roster of open cases that might yield some insight. As she went through the list, she dismissed most of them as "nonsense, trash, scam, poodoo, hoax, wannabe, hoax, trap&hellip;" Her interest was finally aroused when she came across a message from a warlord that read, "I have what the Mikkian wants."The High Republic Adventures (2023) 1 Churo the Hutt managed to steal a Nameless egg on the Nihil-occupied planet Mynos IIIThe High Republic: Escape from Valo that year.The events of The High Republic: Escape from Valo take place one year after the destruction of Starlight Beacon, which equates to 229 BBY per Star Wars: The High Republic Character Encyclopedia. However, as he attempted to exit through the loading door, he discovered it was locked, prompting the Hutt to cry "poodoo!" and futilely punch random numbers on the keypad. He later entered the control room of a comm tower, and beheld all the buttons, levers and wires, and saw that someone had yanked several of the wires out. In frustration, he struck the surface of the panels with his fist and exclaimed, "poodoo!" again. Approximately one year later,The High Republic Adventures (2023) 4 takes place one year and two weeks after the destruction of Starlight Beacon, which Star Wars: The High Republic Character Encyclopedia places in 230 BBY. The implementation of the Guardian Protocols by the Jedi Order, which Star Wars: The High Republic Character Encyclopedia places in 229 BBY, took place one week after Starlight Beacon's destruction, according to The High Republic – Shadows of Starlight 1. As The High Republic Adventures (2023) 4 takes place one year and one week after the implementation of the Guardian Protocols, it must take place in 228 BBY. The High Republic Adventures (2023) 9 takes place shortly after The High Republic Adventures (2023) 4, so it must take place around 228 BBY. an irritated Sevran Tarkin expressed her discontent regarding her uncle, Tragkul Tarkin, who persistently referred to himself as the "Vanquisher of the Carrion Plateau Veermok," derisively calling it "Carrion karkin' Plateau Veermok Vanquisher poodoo!"The High Republic Adventures (2023) 9 During his quest for information about the location of the stolen Hope of Glee AnselmJango Fett 2 in c. 33 BBY, Jango Fett entered the office of an information broker situated on Coruscant's Level 1313. Upon his arrival, he was met by a group of Anselmi intent on stopping him from taking the relic. As Fett readied himself to eliminate them all with his wrist rocket, the information broker prudently sought refuge behind a stack of crates, muttering, "Oh poodoo!" During his visit to the planet Kwenn in 33 BBY,According to , The Living Force takes place one year before the events of , which equates to 33 BBY per Star Wars: Timelines. Jedi Master Even Piell found amusement in examining the local graffiti. He pointed out to the artist, Hadaro, that the spelling of "poodoo" was incorrect. The Twi'lek retorted with sarcasm, inquiring if Piell was a professor, to which Piell humorously responded, "Not of poodoo." Nevertheless, he realized that the Twi'lek was indeed referring to a real teacher by using the term "poodoo" in his graffiti. In 32 BBY, the Dug podracer pilot Sebulba competed in the Boonta Eve Classic on Tatooine, but lost control of his podracer toward the end of the race and crashed into the ground. The Dug was left cursing in his damaged cockpit, letting out an exasperated "poodoo!" In 22 BBY, the Dug Seboca was entertaining Senator Bogg Tyrell while sheStar Wars: Complete Locations piloted a speeder through the skylanes of the planet Coruscant. The pair were interrupted when the Jedi Knight Obi-Wan Kenobi nearly collided with their vehicle while hanging from the assassin droid ASN-121, forcing Tyrell to swerve. Seboca then cursed at Kenobi in Huttese as the Jedi was carried away, calling him "Jedi poodoo!" During the same year, Ruug Quarnom witnessed her partner, Ketar Nor, venting his frustrations by firing at a training battle droid. She verbally acknowledged his need to release his pent-up emotions through violence against the droid, describing the act as "beating the poodoo out of it." Later that year, Jabba the Hutt was deceived into believing that Jedi Knight Anakin Skywalker and his Padawan Ahsoka Tano had taken his son Rotta prisoner, and angrily labeled the two as "Jedi poodoo." When Skywalker entered Jabba's Palace to negotiate with the Hutt, Jabba responded with anger, calling Skywalker "Jedi poodoo" to his face.Star Wars: The Clone Wars film One year later, the shaak herder Peppi Bow lead her herd to the banks of a river on Naboo. Her animals proceeded to drink from the river, but began to honk and snort in alarm, before falling to the ground, dead. An alarmed Bow realized that the water was somehow contaminated. While trying to maneuver the remaining shaaks away from the river using her electropole, she noted, "The water gone poodoo. This is mooie bad." However, it was too late. Although only six of the animals died immediately, almost every other shaak in her herd fell ill and eventually perished. In their quest to find a cure for the Blue Shadow Virus, Obi-Wan Kenobi and Anakin Skywalker discovered reeksa root, the essential component, on the planet Iego. Upon noticing the carnivorous plant, Skywalker muttered, "Oh, poodoo." Later that year, Brainee and a Weequay were involved in a game of chance cubes with Greedo at Jabba's Palace. Following a bad roll of the dice, an irritated Greedo exclaimed, "Poodoo!" In the year 20 BBY, a group of Kage Warriors embarked on a hovertrain with the objective of seizing the cargo it carried. Dengar, one of the bounty hunters assigned to protect the hovertrain, successfully repelled many of the assailants; however, he ultimately succumbed to the overwhelming force of the attackers and was thrown from the train, resulting in his frustrated exclamation of "Poodoo!" After engaging in a battle with a megadroid on Golatha, Anakin Skywalker sought clarification from Grand Master Yoda about his previous statement that Skywalker needed to be the one to stop the megadroid's rotation, as he was in a more favorable position. Skywalker referred to this as a "big pile of poodoo," asserting that he thought Yoda's real aim was to encourage him to prove his own worth. However, Yoda chose not to disclose the truth.Yoda 9 As Gatto Gang member Sylvestarr found themself apprehended by IG-88 after losing their stolen spacesuit, they expressed their frustration by muttering, "Poodoo." During his time in exile on Tatooine, Obi-Wan Kenobi employed a Jedi mind trick to intervene in a confrontation between Greedo and a Sullustan. As the two adversaries departed amicably to enjoy a drink at the Mos Eisley Cantina, a disgruntled Gabdorin observer expressed their discontent by saying, "Ah, poodoo."Star Wars (2015) 28 As Phaedra maneuvered the Millennium Falcon through a tumultuous dogfight in the skies, her limited piloting experience became evident when she exclaimed, "Crik... I am in deep poodoo here," indicating her awareness of the trouble she was in. Between 6 BBY and 5 BBY, during a grav-ball match between the East City Brawlers and the AppSci SaberCats, the Brawlers used rough tactics that normally would have been considered fouls, but were ignored by the match's referee. Following a forceful tackle from one of the East City fullbacks, SaberCat fullback Beck Ollet roared, "What was that poodoo?" at the player responsible. Later on, Janus Fhurek, the athletic director, conveyed to center striker Zare Leonis that their victory would be marred if they were to defeat alien players. In response, Leonis referred to this assertion as a "bunch of poodoo" when discussing it with his fellow teammates. In 1 BBY, upon observing C-3PO and R2-D2 entering his cantina, Wuher the bartender realized that his droid detector was malfunctioning, exacerbating his already foul mood. He likened the unfortunate news on an already dismal day to "a hawked-up globba spit atop a poodoo sundae." During Han Solo's attempt to retrieve the kidnapped Luke Skywalker from Doctor Aphra on Vrogas Vas, Aphra revealed her identity to him. Aware of her reputation, Solo muttered under his breath, "Ah, poodoo."Star Wars (2015) 13Doctor Aphra: An Audiobook Original When Luke Skywalker endeavored to employ a mind trick on a Rodian, asserting that the alien need not be concerned about him and his companion, Nakari Kelen, his attempt was unsuccessful. The Rodian responded, "Poodoo if I don't." In a later conversation, Kelen revealed to Luke that the Emperor would punish Darth Vader whenever the Rebel Alliance got away with their actions. She used the phrase "poodoo runs downhill" as a metaphor to describe the concept of having to manage difficulties that arise from the actions of those in positions of greater power. Subsequently, after Skywalker accidentally spilled some broth on himself, Kelen offered her reassurance by stating that she had previously seen him "covered in poodoo" and still thought highly of him. In 3 ABY, Zuckuss and 4-Lom engaged in a short dogfight with the bounty hunters Beilert Valance and Dengar in the Y'Toub system. Upon Dengar's revelation that Cadeliah, the bounty they were pursuing, was not present on the combat frigate, Zuckuss remarked that if this were indeed the case, there would be no justification for sparing Dengar and his "cyborg friend." However, Dengar promptly clarified that Valance, whom he referred to disparagingly as "that poodoo," was not his friend. He successfully brokered a truce with 4-LOM and Zuckuss by providing them with valuable information regarding Boba Fett's location. Later that year, Dengar was attacked by a zugorak on Jekara, at which point he uttered, "Oooh poodoo."Bounty Hunters 16 As Dengar was infiltrating the crew of the Edgehawk, Bossk, another bounty hunter, observed that he had already estranged half of the crew. He commented that had they been able to grasp "the poodoo coming out of your mouth," he would have likely alienated the entire crew. As a multitude of Crimson Dawn agents attempted to gun the crew down afterward, Tasu Leech commented in Jablogian that "this poodoo" made him miss the fighting pits. In 5 ABY, the Quarren Palabar was recruited by the bounty hunter Jas Emari for Han Solo and Chewbacca's campaign to liberate the Wookiee homeworld of Kashyyyk from the Empire. During the attack on Camp Sardo, Palabar conceived of a plan to climb the wroshyr trees by anchoring massive eyebolts into the wood with pneumo-hammers. This allowed Solo and his team to take up position so that they could destroy the camp's deflector shield generator. Emari contemplated that the Quarren was "utter poodoo in a fight," as even the slightest hint of danger caused him to shrink back in fear and seek solace in prayer. Nevertheless, she recognized his technological proficiency and his cleverness when he was able to overcome his fear.Aftermath: Life Debt When the remains of IG-11 were delivered to Anzellan droidsmiths for repair, they encountered a significant obstacle, as they could not restore him without a functioning memory bank. They recommended buying a new droid, with one of them adding, "This one poodoo." The Secrets of the Bounty Hunters was a book written by the pirate Hondo Ohnaka sometime after the Battle of Mos Espa, focusing on the bounty hunters of the galaxy. In a chapter named "Conclusion," Ohnaka stated that he could say with almost absolute certainty, "We are in deep, deep poodoo."Star Wars: The Secrets of the Bounty Hunters As Jod Na Nawood lead a group of younglings from At Attin through the bazaar on Borgo Prime, a fight broke out among two humans, with one of them vehemently labeling the other as "poodoo!" While an older Han Solo shared his experiences of the Cyrkon Extraction from his younger years with the mercenary Strater, the latter was not convinced, labeling the story as the the "biggest load of poodoo" he had ever heard.Smuggler's Run: A Han Solo & Chewbacca Adventure A common misconception is that "poodoo" refers to feces, even though the word is actually Huttese for "fodder." Despite this, the use of the term is similar to the real-world impolite word "shit," especially when used in the phrases "beat the poodoo out of," which is similar to the real-world idiom "beat the shit out of;" "in deep poodoo," which is similar to "in deep shit;" "poodoo runs downhill," which is similar to the proverb "shit rolls downhill;" and "go poodoo," which is similar to the real-world phrase "go to shit." In the subtitles for Star Wars: The Mandalorian episode "Chapter 19: The Convert," one of the former Imperial officers talking to their comrades at the Amnesty Housing says "Ugh. Poodoo. We don't get promoted." However, in the actual audio, they merely say "Ugh. We don't get promoted." *The High Republic: The Fallen Star *The High Republic: Escape from Valo *The High Republic Adventures (2023) 1 *The High Republic Adventures (2023) 9 *The High Republic: Beware the Nameless *The High Republic: Tempest Breaker *The High Republic: Tempest Breaker script *The High Republic: A Valiant Vow *The Living Force *Jango Fett 2 *Brotherhood *Star Wars: The Clone Wars film *Star Wars Outlaws: Low Red Moon *Han Solo & Chewbacca 10 *Servants of the Empire: Edge of the Galaxy *Boba Fett — Black, White & Red 2 *Smuggler's Run: A Han Solo & Chewbacca Adventure *Heir to the Jedi *Doctor Aphra: An Audiobook Original *Doctor Aphra script *Star Wars (2015) 13 *Star Wars (2015) 28 *Yoda 9 *Bounty Hunters 10 *Bounty Hunters 12 *Bounty Hunters 16 *Bounty Hunters 24 *Aftermath: Life Debt *Doctor Aphra – Chaos Agent 5 *Path of the Lightsaber, Vol. 1 }} *Star Wars: The Secrets of the Bounty Hunters }} Category:Slang