26442
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Bulldog_RLR
Bulldog RLR
2913

thumb|250px|An [[IG-100 MagnaGuard/Legends|IG-100 MagnaGuard aiming its Bulldog RLR at a clone trooper.]] The Bulldog Rocket Launching Rifle (RLR) was a handheld weapon used by CIS forces during the Clone Wars. This weapon fired powerful antipersonnel rocket propelled grenades. With a chassis akin to the E-5 blaster rifle used notably by the Trade Federation's B1-series battle droids, the RLR was primarily an extremely devastating antipersonnel weapon, but was also effective against armored vehicles. The weapon held a magazine of six rocket-propelled grenades and could fire them rapidly when the weapon was not locked on a target. When locked, the firing rate of the weapon was much slower, but allowed more kill power against small targets. These rockets, with a sluggish fly-time, were most effective when they could catch clone troopers off-guard or unprepared. The rockets also had a lock-on function, which was easily defeated by ducking behind large obstacles. This aside, the Bulldog RLR was a formidable weapon in the right hands. Bulldog RLRs were used most notably by General Grievous' personal bodyguards&mdash;IG-100 MagnaGuard droids. By the end of the Clone Wars, the Bulldog RLR was employed by many rebels that worked to hinder the rise of the Galactic Empire. The Empire soon acquired this technology and used it in their heavy trooper's weapons, such as the heavy rocket launcher. The Bulldog RLR was almost completely gone after the formation of the Empire, and was seen only in the odd smuggling operation or on the black market. However, Gizor Dellso used one in the Battle of Mustafar. This weapon has a real prototype, the Gyrojet weapon series which includes unificated pistol, carbine and rifle that was created in 1960s in USA. Furthermore, popularization of the image of the reactive small arms these days was significantly contributed by fictional universe Warhammer 40000, where its variant, so-called bolters, is found almost everywhere. *Star Wars: Battlefront II *Star Wars Battlefront II: Prima Official Game Guide Category:Confederacy military Category:Grenade launchers Category:Rifles