26470
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Emperor%27s_office
Emperor's office
47335

|terrain= |fauna= |flora= |interest=*Chancellor's ArchiveStar Wars: Complete Locations *Chancellor's accommodation suite |affiliation=*Galactic Republic **Office of the Chancellor *Galactic EmpireDarth Vader (2017) 5 **Galactic Emperor }} The Emperor's office, formerly known as the Chancellor's office or the Chancellor's Suite, was a suite of offices and private rooms that belonged to Emperor Palpatine during the reign of the Galactic Empire. Located near the pinnacle of the Imperial Executive Building, a government complex on the planet Coruscant, it also served as Palpatine's office during his tenure as Supreme Chancellor of the Galactic Republic. In addition to a private, working office, the suite contained a ceremonial office where Chancellor Palpatine conducted official meetings with the Galactic Senate and the Jedi High Council. Palpatine continued to use the office after becoming Emperor in the aftermath of the Clone Wars. However, he ultimately transferred his seat of power to the newly-renovated Imperial Palace, which once served as the home of the Jedi Order prior to Order 66. }} thumb|left|250px|The Chancellor's Suite had a ceremonial office that was reserved for official meetings. The Emperor's office was a collection of public and private offices where the Sith Lord Darth Sidious&mdash;known to the galaxy as Sheev Palpatine&mdash;held court in the early days of the Galactic Empire. Prior to the rise of the New Order, the office served as Palpatine's workspace during his time as Supreme Chancellor of the Galactic Republic. It was located in the well-guarded Senate Office Building,Ultimate Star Wars a government complex on one of the highest levels of the capital world of Coruscant, and comprised of several rooms, such as a ceremonial office which contained the Chair of Office and the Chancellor's official desk. As leader of the Republic, the Chancellor often held meetings with members of the Galactic Senate as well as the Jedi High Council in the formal, ceremonial office. It was the Chancellor's prerogative to decorate the office as he saw fit; as such, Palpatine's Sith-inspired preference for the color red was evident in the décor of his office, which also contained bronzium statues of the Four Sages of Dwartii (one of which concealed a lightsaber in both the main office and connecting anteroom, along with such relics as a pair of bas-reliefs depicting struggle between Jedi and Sith minions on an ancient battlefield, found in an archaeological excavation on Yavin 4, and a Sith Chalice; a form of incense burner used in ancient meditation rituals, recovered during an expedition to Malachor. The office complex's security was provided by the Chancellor's Red Guard sentinels, who were stationed at the entrance of the ceremonial office during the waning days of the Separatist Crisis. As Emperor he continued to use the ceremonial office as an audience chamber, although the Chancellor's desk had been removed at this point. thumb|right|250px|The Chancellor's Suite also had a private office. The chancellor's private office was located adjacent to the ceremonial office; from there Palpatine could access Sith databanks concealed elsewhere, monitor private HoloNet transmissions, and maintain contact with his secret followers. Both offices were connected by a multipurpose anteroom annexes which was used for meetings, waiting, and serving refreshments. Behind the area was the Chancellor's Archives, containing holodisc files and correspondence of former chancellors. Although Palpatine owned private apartments in the exclusive 500 Republica residential tower, the Chancellor's office included a small accommodation suite for his personal use. One of suite's rooms served as a working office for the Chancellor's aides, including a Red Guard whose duty was to ceaselessly monitor the security systems. The Chancellor's office was in existence byThe High Republic: Trail of Shadows 2 around 231 BBY,The events of The High Republic: Trail of Shadows 2 take place weeks after the events of The High Republic: Trail of Shadows 1, which Star Wars: Timelines dates to 231 BBY. a year of the High Republic Era in which Lina Soh served as chancellor of the Republic. During that time, the Republic was locked in conflict with the Nihil marauders,The High Republic: Trail of Shadows 2 who had struck at the Republic Fair on the planet Valo&mdash;a major public blow to the Republic&mdash;and unleashed a mysterious weapon,The High Republic: The Rising Storm the NamelessThe High Republic: Eye of the Storm 2 known as the Great Leveler, against the Jedi, with Jedi Master Loden Greatstorm killed by its feasting. In the wake of Greatstorm's death, his fellow Jedi Master and the Jedi investigator Emerick Caphtor was assigned to uncover the cause of Greatstorm's demise.The High Republic: Trail of Shadows 1 Around 231 BBY, Soh summoned Caphtor and the private investigator Sian Holt her office. Upon entering, Caphtor outlined the little progress he had made, which Senator Ghirra Starros took as a sign that he had made no progress whatsoever. Jedi Master Stellan Gios, whom Soh trusted, was present and objected to Starros's response, but Soh ordered both to be silent before an argument could begin. Thanking Caphtor for the update but explaining it was not why she had him summoned, Soh allowed Holt to enter and requested she work with Capthor, believing that the recent death of her partner Keefar Branto was connected to the matter. thumb|left|250px|The Chancellor's office was occupied by Supreme Chancellor Sheev Palpatine during the final years of the Galactic Republic. The Chancellor's office became the working office space of Sheev Palpatine&mdash;a former senator who represented his homeworld of Naboo in the Galactic Senate&mdash;by 32 BBY, following his election to the office of Supreme Chancellor during the Invasion of Naboo. During the early years of his chancellorship, Palpatine became invested in the career of Anakin Skywalker, the prophesied Chosen One who began training as a Padawan in the Jedi Order shortly after the Battle of Naboo. At Palpatine's request, Jedi Master Mace Windu sent Skywalker to meet with the Chancellor in his office under the supervision of his mentor, the recently promoted Jedi Knight Obi-Wan Kenobi. Palpatine brought the young Jedi with him to Club Kasakar, claiming it was a simple errand in order to allay Kenobi's concerns. After returning from their excursion, where Skywalker witnessed an example of Senatorial corruption, they returned to the Chancellor's office where Palpatine gauged Skywalker's commitment to the Jedi Order. Although Skywalker remained steadfast in his decision to become a Jedi Knight, Palpatine informed him that there would always be a place for him at the Chancellor's side.Obi-Wan and Anakin 4 thumb|right|250px|Chancellor Palpatine discussed matters of state with the Jedi High Council in his office during the Separatist Crisis. By 22 BBY the galaxy was on the verge of civil war as thousands of disaffected star systems joined the newly-formed Confederacy of Independent Systems, effectively seceding from the Republic. The Confederacy steadily gained widespread support for their cause in spite of overtures of peace and reconciliation from Chancellor Palpatine, who vowed to prevent the Separatist Crisis from tearing the thousand-year Republic asunder. During the political upheaval, the Chancellor's office was where Palpatine conducted official meetings with the Loyalist Committee and the Jedi High Council, both of which served in an advisory role to expedite the Chancellor's negotiations with the Separatists. Windu voiced his concern for the Republic's security, noting that the Jedi were not an army and, therefore, could not guarantee the safety of the state in the event of open war. His colleague, Grand Master Yoda also informed the Chancellor that the Force offered no insight into their dilemma, for the rising power of the dark side made it impossible to foresee the future. thumb|left|250px|Palpatine praised Anakin Skywalker, calling him the most gifted apprentice in the Jedi Order. When the Loyalists arrived at the Chancellor's office, Palpatine requested that the High Council assign Kenobi and Skywalker to the security detail of Senator Padmé Amidala, whose life had been threatened by an assassination attempt on Coruscant. Following a second attempt, the High Council dispatched Skywalker to speak with Palpatine in the hopes that he would give an executive order to Amidala, requiring her to leave the capital for security reasons. Palpatine obliged the High Council's request and then proceeded to praise their messenger, calling Skywalker the most gifted Jedi with the potential to surpass even the Grand Master of the Jedi Order. thumb|right|250px|The Chancellor's office received Obi-Wan Kenobi's report on the Separatists' war plans. As the Senate continued to debate the Military Creation Act, the High Council sent Kenobi to hunt and capture the mercenary involved in the plot against Amidala. Kenobi's investigation led him to follow the bounty hunter Jango Fett from Kamino to Geonosis, where he discovered factories responsible for the secret creation of the Separatist Droid Army. Knowing that the Separatists intended to make war on the Republic, Kenobi recorded his findings in a message that was received by Palpatine, his colleagues, and the High Council in the Chancellor's office. Having failed to prevent a conflict through diplomacy, the Loyalist Committee then looked to the Kaminoans' army of clone troopers for salvation. However, Senator Bail Organa of Alderaan noted that the Senate was too divisive to agree on the use of a clone army before the Separatists attacked the Republic. After Vice Chair Mas Amedda suggested that the Chancellor could unilaterally authorize the creation of a Republic Military, Junior Representative Jar Jar Binks successfully proposed a motion in the Senate that granted emergency wartime powers to Palpatine. Hence, the Grand Army of the Republic was established to defend the state and suppress the Separatist rebellion. thumb|left|250px|During the Clone Wars, Chancellor Palpatine received a request for aid from the Hutt crime lord Jabba Desilijic Tiure. During the Battle of Christophsis, Palpatine along with Windu, Koon and Unduli watched a holo-message from Jabba the Hutt asking for help in locating his recently kidnapped son, Rotta on the office's holoprojector. Together, the group crossed the room as they discussed how the Republic needed the usage of the Hutt's space lines in the Outer Rim to move its troops. Windu stated that there was more to the kidnapping to which the Chancellor suggested they send as many Jedi as needed to investigate. As they reached the entrance, Windu stated the only Jedi available were Skywalker and Kenobi. A short time later, Palpatine was contacted by Jabba and demanded to know why the Jedi were not looking for his son. Senators Kharrus and Onaconda Farr stood behind Palpatine as the Chancellor assured the Hutt that the Jedi were on their way. thumb|right|250px|Jedi General Kenobi reported Count Dooku's plot to the Chancellor's office. After the Battle of Teth, Kenobi contacted the Chancellor's office. At his desk, Palpatine and Yoda listened as Kenobi informed them that Anakin had made it to Tatooine but was still in danger. Kenobi went on to say that everything had to have been Dooku's doing in order to have the Hutt Clans join the Separatists. Amidala entered the office after Kenobi ended his message. After exchanging pleasantries with Yoda, Amidala made her way up to the Palpatine who proceeded to inform her of Skywalker's current predicament. Dismayed at what she was told, Amidala stated she would persuade Jabba to sign the treaty with the Republic and turned to leave. Palpatine tried to get the senator to reconsider her plans and informed her that Jabba was not accepting communications from the Republic. Amidala stated she would go see Jabba's uncle to see about reopening negations and made her way out of the office as Palpatine warned her that the Hutts were vile gangsters. }} thumb|left|250px|The Jedi apprised Chancellor Palpatine of the Separatists' new secret weapon. Palpatine approached the office's holoprojector as holograms of Yoda, Windu and Kenobi were discussing the Separatist's new secret weapon. Palpatine asked of there had been any news about Koon or his fleet after they had been attacked by the weapon in the Abregado system to which Windu said there had not been. Kenobi then responded that Skywalker had located the wreckage of the fleet and was looking for saviors. When asked by the Chancellor on whose authority Skywalker had done this, Kenobi stated that Skywalker had acted on his own authority and had taken his Padawan Ahsoka Tano with him. }} thumb|right|250px|Anakin Skywalker and Ahsoka Tano reported directly to the Chancellor's office, but only Skywalker was invited by Palpatine. Skywalker and Tano arrived at the Chancellor's office to update Palpatine about their mission to retrieve the Jedi holocron stolen by the bounty hunter Cad Bane. Palpatine greeted Skywalker and Tano at the entrance to his office and welcomed Skywalker inside while leaving Tano outside. Palpatine discussed the brazen plot with Skywalker as he led them to office's window. As they reached the window, Skywalker stated that he believed someone else was behind the plot and that it was not Dooku. After asking who that might be and Skywalker replied he did not know, Palpatine put his hand on Skywalker's shoulder and told him to be patient as they looked out the office window. }} thumb|left|250px|Duchess Satine Kryze received an audience with Chancellor Palpatine in his office. After surviving an assassination attempt, the Duchess of Mandalore Satine Kryze met with Palpatine and Mas Amedda in the Chancellor's office. Two Senate Commandos stood guard at the office's entrance as Kryze sat across from the Chancellor and questioned why an investigation was not going to be made in to the incident. Palpatine informed her that there was no actual proof the speeder had been tempered with and that it most like had just been a simple accident. Kryze was adamant in her view to which Amedda turned around and stated it proved that the Republic needed to intervene on Mandalore and reign in Death Watch. After Kryze voiced her disapproval of such an action, Palpatine informed her that the motion was up to the Senate and assured her that they would make a thoughtful decision. Amidala, Kenobi and Skywalker, met with Palpatine and Amedda in the Chancellor's office after new evidence revealed Mandalore did not need Republic assistance. The Chancellor expressed his relief that the occupation of Mandalore was no longer necessary to which Amidala replied Kryze deserved the credit. Kryze entered the office stating she did not require the credit as two of her royal guards stood outside the office's entrance. As the Duchess approached the group, Amidala informed her that Republic forces had been ordered to stand down. Palpatine offered Kryze a sincere apology on behalf of the Republic and expressed his gratitude for her being a loyal servant. Amidala then led the Chancellor and Amedda out of the office to discuss ratifying the Senate's decision with Skywalker following them. Kryze and Kenobi remained alone in the office. Kryze expressed her gratitude for Kenobi's aid but the Jedi said it was all due to the Duchess' devotion to her people. However Kryze added there were still too many questions and they had no idea who truly was behind it all. Kenobi agreed with her and stated that the line between friend and foe was becoming more blurred as ever as the two turned and looked out the office's window. }} thumb|right|250px|Senator Padmé Amidala informed Chancellor Palpatine of the peace accord. After returning from their secret mission to Raxus Secundus, Amidala and Tano arrived at the Chancellor's office to inform Palpatine and him of the proposed peace proposal offered by the Separatist Parliament. Palpatine had been enjoying a drink with Mas Amedda with at least one Senate Guard standing guard in the office. Setting his drink down on the tray, the Chancellor walked the Senator across the office, reminding her of all the previous attempts of peace with the Separatist had failed. Taking Palpatine to the side, Amidala explained the proposal was genuine and had originated with her former colleague Separatist Senator Mina Bonteri. After agreeing to have the proposal put to the Senate, Palpatine turned and made his way back to where Amedda was standing. }} thumb|left|250px|Palpatine and Mas Amedda discussed their political strategy in the privacy of the Chancellor's office. After Senator Amidala delivered a speech against the bill to increase the number of clone troopers, Palpatine sat in his darken office looking out the window. Turning his chair away from the window, the Chancellor lamented on how a single senator's words could sway the thoughts of millions despite one having all the power in the galaxy. As he spoke, he rose from the chair and made his way from his desk as Mas Amedda approached him. Amedda asked what he planned to handle the situation, Palpatine informed him that must follow the principals of their democracy as he turned and made his way towards the window. Looking from the window before back to Amedda, Palpatine stated that the wheels of the Senate had to be allowed to turn before looking back to the window. }} thumb|right|250px|The senators gathered in the Chancellor's office after the assassination of Onaconda Farr. Following the death of Senator Onaconda Farr, Senator Amidala along with Farr's aide, Lolo Purs were informed by a Senate guard that the Chancellor requested their presence in his chambers. Two guards escorted them to the office where they found Senators Bail Organa, Mon Mothma and Orn Free Taa waiting with Palpatine and Mas Amedda along with several police droids. Palpatine informed Padmé that Lieutenant Tanivos Exantor Divo wished to question them about Farr's death which he revealed had been murder. Palpatine moved to the other side of the office as Amedda and Taa moved towards the Chancellor's desk. Amidala and Purs sat on an office couch with Mon Mothma while Senator Organa remained standing as Divo started to question them about who would most want to kill Farr. As Divo revealed Farr had most likely been poisoned, moved up to the upper level of the office and moved about as Amidala started to pose possible reasons why Farr had been killed. Divo made his way down the office side steps and towards the office entrance informing the Senator he would solve Farr's death while they stayed focused on governing. As the lieutenant his droids left, Palpatine crossed the office commenting how the whole ordeal was inconceivable. thumb|left|250px|Senator Amidala disarmed Farr's murderer, Lolo Purs, who tried to escape from the Chancellor's office. Divo gather everyone in the Chancellor's office as he questioned Kaminoan Senator Halle Burtoni after Lolo claimed Burtoni had tried to kill her. As he moved about the center of the office, Divo stated his case for Burtoni being the culprit not just behind Farr's murder but the murder of Senator Mee Deechi as well. After revealing that Farr's drink had been laced with a poison that had killed Farr was developed by Kaminoan scientist, Divo had his guards escort Burtoni out of the office. However Amidala stated that Purs would have been killed as well which lead her to realize Lolo had not taken a drink at all. Exposed, Purs aimed a pistol at took Amidala and took her hostage. As they backed up towards the entrance, Purs stated she had killed Farr because he had brought war to their planet. At the office door, Purs pushed Amidala away. Divo discreetly activated his guards outside the office as Purs confessed. Distracted by the office door opening, Amidala knocked the blaster out of Purs' hand and punched her in the face. Mon Mothma and Organa comforted Amidala in the entrance way while Palpatine, Amedda, and Taa came up from behind and Divo and his guards arrested Purs. }} thumb|right|250px|Amedda reported to Chancellor Palpatine, who ordered the Vice Chair to prepare his ship for departure. Chancellor Palpatine stood before the office widow, eyes closed deep in meditation. He was alone with the exception of the two Red guards who stood on either side of the office entrance. As he meditated, Palpatine felt disturbance in the force which caused him adopt a grim expression. As he opened his eyes, Mas Amedda entered the office and stopped in the entranceway, answering the Chancellor's summons. Looking slightly over his shoulder, Palpatine ordered the Vice Chair to have his ship prepared. As Amedda left to carry out his orders, the Chancellor turned his attention back out the window with narrowed eyes and a dark expression on his face. thumb|left|250px|Shaak Ti informed Palpatine of the death of clone trooper Tup. Shaak Ti and Doctor Nala Se contacted Palpatine by hologram at his office to inform the Chancellor of the death of clone trooper Tup. Their holograms were projected from the holoprojector in the chancellor's desk. As Shaak Ti spoke, Palpatine moved past his chair and placed a hand on it, swiveling it sideways as the he made his way to look out the office window. After Shaak Ti suggested that the Jedi examine Tup's tumor at the Jedi Temple, Palpatine suggesting that the examination could be done at the Grand Republic Medical Facility on Coruscant. Even though she stated the request came directly from the Jedi Council, Ti was coerced into agreeing with Se and the Chancellor. Thus, Palpatine succeeded in beginning to covertly cover up the true nature of Tup's malfunction. Clone trooper Fives attempted to assassinate Palpatine in the Grand Republic Medical Facility, where he learned that the chancellor was involved in a conspiracy to use the clone army to destroy the Jedi Order. Mace Windu informed his fellow Jedi that the chancellor was moved to his Senate quarters while the Republic Military hunted the fugitive Advanced Recon Commando on Coruscant. Palpatine was in his office, under the protection of clone shock troopers of the Coruscant Guard, when he was informed by Clone Commander Fox that a probe droid tracked Fives to Sector I-9. Palpatine met with the Jedi High Council, as well as Anakin Skywalker, in his office after Fives was killed by Fox on Level 1325. He informed the Jedi that a virus corrupted the behavioral modification biochips of both clones, causing both Tup and Fives to behave erratically. As a result, he planned to have every clone trooper inoculated against viral attacks. The chancellor also urged the Jedi to redirect their focus on the war effort, assuring them that they were on the verge of victory. }} In the aftermath of the Battle of Coruscant, Chancellor Palpatine summoned Anakin Skywalker to his office where he informed the young Jedi Knight of his decision to appoint Skywalker to the ranks of the Jedi High Council. Despite Skywalker's belief that the High Council would reject the chancellor's decision, Palpatine was confident that they would allow the appointment of Skywalker as his personal representative. thumb|right|300px|The fate of the galaxy hinged on the outcome of a duel in the Chancellor's office between Mace Windu and Darth Sidious. During the Battle of Utapau, Skywalker returned to the chancellor's office to inform Palpatine about the imminent end of the Clone Wars, his former mentor Obi-Wan Kenobi having confronted General Grievous on Utapau. However, Palpatine chose this moment to openly tempt Skywalker with the dark side of the Force, revealing his secret identity as the Sith Lord Darth Sidious. Skywalker reported him to the High Council; as a result, the Jedi Masters Mace Windu, Kit Fisto, Saesee Tiin, and Agen Kolar confronted Palpatine with the intention of arresting the chancellor in his office. The ensuing duel in Palpatine's office ended with the deaths of Kolar, Tiin, and Fisto before Windu succeeded in disarming Sidious. By then, Skywalker had returned to the chancellor's office where he ultimately chose to prevent Windu from killing the Sith Lord, believing that Sidious held the knowledge to prevent Padmé Amidala's death in childbirth. After Windu's death, Sidious proclaimed Skywalker as his new Sith apprentice and granted him the moniker of Darth Vader. The Great Jedi Purge commenced with Sidious issuing Order 66 to the clone army, causing the clones to execute their Jedi officers for treason against the Galactic Republic. thumb|left|250px|Darth Vader returned to Darth Sidious after completing his early trials as a Sith apprentice. Emperor Palpatine sat in his chair as Moff Wilhuff Tarkin stood to his right and Mas Amedda stood to his left. Two Imperial Royal guards stood at attention between the holoprojector on lower level of the office. The Emperor sat leaning over with his chin resting on his folded hands as Tarkin reported on progress of the construction of the Death Star. As Amedda asked about the progress of the station's super laser, the Emperor looked up as the two guards activated their Force pikes and started to assume combat stance. Suddenly the guards were hurled across the room and were slammed into the office window, cracking it. Both Amedda and Tarkin were at a loss as to what was happening while the Emperor remained calm. A heavily battered and damaged Darth Vader entered the office and made his way towards the Emperor. The Emperor ordered Amedda and Tarkin to leave though Tarkin was hesitant to do so, concerned for the Emperor's safety. Smiling, the Emperor assured the Moff he was safe and again ordered him and Amedda to leave the office which they did. Alone, Vader stood before his master who remained seated, looking at his apprentice over his folded hands. Finally, the Emperor spoke and addressed Vader as apprentice. Vader replied by addressing the Emperor as master, igniting his lightsaber, revealing its new crimson blade much to the Emperor's delight. thumb|right|250px|Sidious and Vader discussed the need to impose consequences for treachery. After concluding the reasoning for the series of assassination attempts on his life, Darth Vader approached his master in the office. The Emperor sat on his throne and asked his apprentice if he was sure that his deduction was correct. Vader assured his master that the attacks were due to the Imperial officers not understanding how he wielded the power of the Emperor. Palpatine asked his apprentice if he was positive there was no other way to address his claim. Standing before his master, Vader stated that there had to be consequences and that he would kill all officers if he was not allowed to take some now to serve as an example. Leaning forward, the Emperor granted Vader's request with the condition that Tarkin be spared as he had further use of the man. thumb|left|250px|Vader informs the Emperor of the training of the Inquisitorius. Kneeling before his master, Darth Vader gave an update on the training progress of the Inquisitorius and that they would soon be ready to serve the Emperor. Agreeing with his apprentice’s summation, Palpatine motioned for Vader to rise so they could speak of other matters however, Vader first asked to pose a question. After a moment, Palpatine agreed and as he followed his master, Vader stated that the name of a certain Jedi stood out on the Inquisitors’ target list and asked what was so important about the Archivist of the Jedi Orde, Jocasta Nu.Darth Vader (2017) 10 As they crossed the room, Palpatine, while commenting on the archivist’s subpar abilities, stated that she was a great threat to them because Nu knew all the secrets of the Jedi. As the Jedi had taken possession of many Force related artifacts over the years and brought them to Coruscant, Nu had been charged with their safekeeping including items and secrets relating to the Dark Side and the Ancient Sith. Upon reaching the office’s entrance, Vader stated that he understood his master’s worries would personally see to Nu’s death, but Palpatine informed him to belie the action. Palpatine revealed that a great treasure hidden in the Jedi Archives and that only Nu knew of its location. As they stood before the office’s entrance, Palpatine instructed Vader that he was to locate Nu and bring her before him so he could learn of the treasure’s location. When Vader asked his master why the Inquisitors where not informed of Nu’s importance, Palpatine stated that the knowledge she possessed could be used against them if she was caught by other parties. Reflecting on the arrogance of the Jedi, Palpatine stated that he feared Nu would mount a fool’s quest to save the galaxy which would result in her being captured or killed, taking all she knew with her. Before leaving the office, the Emperor charged his apprentice with not just locating Nu but also saving her life. }} The Emperor's office, then serving as the Supreme Chancellor's office, was first depicted in Star Wars: Episode II Attack of the Clones. Concept Artist Jay Shuster worked on designing the room and was tasked by Doug Chiang to gibe it "an all-seeing view" of Coruscant, which presented the theme of Palpatine as a "Big-Brother is watching" type of character. *The High Republic: The Eye of Darkness *The High Republic: Temptation of the Force *The High Republic: Into the Light *The High Republic: Trials of the Jedi *The Living Force *Jango Fett 4 *Queen's Peril *Obi-Wan and Anakin 2 *Obi-Wan and Anakin 4 *Queen's Hope *Jar Jar 1 *Brotherhood *Star Wars: The Clone Wars film *Catalyst: A Rogue One Novel *Darth Maul — Son of Dathomir 3 *Darth Vader (2017) 5 *Master of Evil *Darth Vader (2017) 7 *Darth Vader (2017) 8 *Darth Vader (2017) 11 *Darth Vader (2017) 12 *Darth Vader (2020) 8 *Darth Vader (2020) 33 *Doctor Aphra – Chaos Agent 3 *Star Wars: Galaxy of Heroes }} *LEGO Star Wars: The Skywalker Saga *Ultimate Star Wars |contents= }} *Star Wars: Complete Locations *Star Wars: Rogue One: The Ultimate Visual Guide *Star Wars Lightsabers: A Guide to Weapons of the Force *Ultimate Star Wars, New Edition *Star Wars: The Lightsaber Collection *Under the Helmet: The Legacy of Boba Fett *Star Wars Encyclopedia: The Comprehensive Guide to the Star Wars Galaxy }} Most Outrageous Character Mashups}} Category:Coruscant rooms Category:Galactic Empire locations Category:Galactic Republic locations Category:Offices Category:Senate Office Building locations