26515
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Polis_Massa_Research_Base
Polis Massa Research Base
8378

The Polis Massa Research Base, also known simply as Polis Massa Base, was a scientific facility set up by the Kallidahin people on the largest of the asteroid fragments of the former planet Polis Massa. The Polis Massa Research Base was located in the Wiyentaah crater on Polis Massa, the main asteroid of the Polis Massa Asteroid Field and largest fragment of the destroyed planet Polis Massa. The base was established by the Kallidahin and dedicated to excavate the remains of the destroyed planet. The Kallidahin archaeologists hoped to uncover an evolutionary link between their species and the extinct natives of Polis Massa, the Eellayin. thumb|left|260px|Polis Massa Research Base cutaway. The base was the main settlement in the Polis Massa Asteroid Field.The Clone Wars Campaign Guide The facility was stocked with the latest scientific technology, and contained rooms dedicated to the study of relics, and medcenters designed for experimentations on genetic material brought to the facility. Observation domes looked out over the complex (e.g. Waystation Dome and Topside Dome), and two landing bays provided access to the main base. Larger ships could touch down on the surface of the asteroid itself. Ironically, the Polis Massa Research Base was built almost directly above an underground Eellayin city named Wiyentaah. The research base was connected to the excavation site known as the Local Dig. All collected artifacts were brought to the base for study and conservation. The researchers were not content with merely studying their finds, however. With cloning skills learned from the Kaminoans, the xenobiologists at Research Base hoped to resurrect extinct organisms from ancient biological material. In addition, the project brought about the need for a sophisticated biomedical facility, constructed as part of the base. }} The Polis Massa Research Base was established in 519 BBY by the Archaeological Research Council. Archeological research at Polis Massa Base continued for around five hundred years, with surveys and excavations taking place throughout the asteroid belt. Fifty years prior to the formation of the Galactic Empire, researchers uncovered the ruins of the ancient city of Wiyentaah in close proximity to the base itself. The so-called Local Dig was quickly explored, with artifacts found during excavation taken back to the Research Base for study. thumb|right|260px|Padmé Amidala gives birth to Luke and Leia. In 19 BBY, at the very end of the Clone Wars, Obi-Wan Kenobi brought Padmé Amidala to Polis Massa Base for immediate treatment to deliver her twins. Padmé's treatment was overseen by a GH-7 medical analysis unit, who was soon joined by a midwife droid when Amidala went into labor. Though the droid successfully delivered her twins, Padmé herself succumbed to her mental injuries, and died on the operating table after losing the will to live. During the Galactic Civil War, the Kallidahin joined the Rebel Alliance and included the Polis Massa Research Base in the Polis Massa Rebel base. The research base was connected to other Rebel facilities on the asteroid via hidden underground tunnels. Nevertheless, the Rebels paid attention to limit their presence in the research base to avoid exposing the Kallidahin unnecessarily at risk, although they made extensive use of its advanced medical center. thumb|right|180px|Polis Massa Base layout. *Star Wars: Revenge of the Sith novelization *Star Wars: Episode III Revenge of the Sith junior novelization *Star Wars: Episode III — Revenge of the Sith 4 *Dark Nest III: The Swarm War *LEGO Star Wars: The Video Game *LEGO Star Wars: The Complete Saga *The New Essential Guide to Droids *The New Essential Guide to Alien Species *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia *The Clone Wars Campaign Guide *Star Wars: The Official Starships & Vehicles Collection 31 *Star Wars: Age of Rebellion Core Rulebook *Strongholds of Resistance }} Category:Archaeological sites Category:Polis Massa locations