26819
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Tizowyrm
Tizowyrm
6833

Tizowyrms were a species of small worms bioengineered by Yuuzhan Vong alchemists that, when inserted into an ear, translated and allowed the wearer to speak alien languages. During the Yuuzhan Vong War, their advance agents used tizowyrms to communicate with the people of the galaxy when completing tasks in preparation for the coming invasion force. Throughout the conflict that followed, the Yuuzhan Vong wore tizowyrms when speaking with the residents of the galaxy. Tizowyrms were small, brown worms bioengineered by Yuuzhan Vong alchemists to act as a translators between their language and those used by other societies. On one end of their bodies, the tizowyrm had a mouth encircled by sharp teeth and several tendrils. Despite their size, tizowyrms were able to store vast quantities of information and transmit to their wearers subliminally. They were used by inserting the worm into an ear, where it would burrow in and transmit information through vibrations. Once in place, it allowed the wearer to both understand and speak other languages. Tizowyrms could only be used for a limited time, and if left in too long would grow exhausted and vibrate itself to death. When not in use, tizowyrms were kept jars filled with fluid or small coffers. Due to war-like culture of the Yuuzhan Vong, some terms translated poorly or not at all, even through the use of a tizowyrm.The New Jedi Order: Balance Point Tizowyrms Galactic Basic word peace translated to mean "willing and appropriate submission from the submissive to the conquerer" and did not know the word forgive. Tizowyrm translation of the words bioengineer and scientist made little sense to the warrior Vua Rapuung, leading him to conclude the words were obscene. Amnesty and mercy also did not translate well through a tizowyrm because the idea that allowing one to escape the destiny of death was generous ran contrary to Yuuzhan Vong ideals. The word massage also was incomprehensible to Yuuzhan Vong when translated by a tizowyrm, becoming something akin to "inflict pain," when in fact it meant the opposite.The New Jedi Order: Enemy Lines II: Rebel Stand Advance agents of the Yuuzhan Vong invasion force, such as Yomin Carr of the Praetorite Vong, used Tizowyrms to communicate with the native species while they carried out their tasks to lay the groundwork for their invasion of the galaxy. Once the Yuuzhan Vong forces reached the Core Worlds, Warmaster Tsavong Lah used a tizowyrm to communicate a message demanding the surrender of the planet Duro. In the battle that ensued, Lah suffered a defeat at the hands of the young Jedi Jacen Solo. Following the battle, he used a tizowyrm to express an ultimatum to the New Republic, swearing to suspend hostilities if they gave up their "Jeedai" to the invaders and delivered Solo to him alive. Tizowyrms first appeared in the 1999 novel The New Jedi Order: Vector Prime, written by R. A. Salvatore. *The New Jedi Order: Vector Prime *Invasion: Rescues 2 *Invasion: Rescues 3 *The New Jedi Order: Balance Point *The New Jedi Order: Edge of Victory I: Conquest *The New Jedi Order: Edge of Victory II: Rebirth *The New Jedi Order: Dark Journey *The New Jedi Order: Enemy Lines I: Rebel Dream *The New Jedi Order: Enemy Lines II: Rebel Stand *The New Jedi Order: Ylesia *The New Jedi Order: The Final Prophecy *The New Jedi Order: The Unifying Force *Star Wars Roleplaying Game Core Rulebook *The New Jedi Order Sourcebook *Coruscant and the Core Worlds *The New Essential Guide to Weapons and Technology *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia *Galaxy of Intrigue Category:Creatures of unspecified diet Category:Species of undefined sentience Category:Worms Category:Yuuzhan Vong creatures