26815
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Ooglith_masquer
Ooglith masquer
5613

An ooglith masquer was a creature bioengineered by the Yuuzhan Vong to function as a full-body disguise to allow them to infiltrate other species. Ooglith masquers were bioengineered creatures employed by the Yuuzhan Vong. They allowed a Yuuzhan Vong to disguise themselves as a different species to engage in deep-cover operations. Generally, masquers were used by the Yuuzhan Vong to pose as Humans, the species that most closely resembled them in size and shape. Masquers took on a specific appearance and could be reused many times.The Essential Guide to Alien Species Masquers had to be specifically trained to remain in a certain form while covering the wearer's face. The ooglith masquer was closely related to the ooglith cloaker. Resembling a blob of protoplasm, the masquer was draped over the head and torso of a Yuuzhan Vong. Like the cloaker, masquers were painful to put on, with the masquer attaching to the wearer by inserting thousands of tiny tendrils into the pores of the skin. The masquer could be removed by pressing the hidden organ located near the nose. The creature's tendrils would withdraw from the body and peel away from the face, returning to a state of protoplasm for storage. A variant, the gablith masquer, was developed that allowed the Yuuzhan Vong to disguise themselves as non-Human species such as the Duros.The New Jedi Order: Balance Point Masquers were used by the Yuuzhan Vong to conceal their identity, hiding their own face behind that of another individual or for older Yuuzhan Vong to appear younger. The Praetorite Vong wore masquers in this fashion, but by the time of the Yuuzhan Vong's invasion of the galaxy, Shapers has all but stopped using masquers in a similar way for decades. Onimi wore a masquer to disguise his shaming in his guise as Kae Kwaad,The New Jedi Order: Edge of Victory II: Rebirth whereas conversely, Nom Anor wore a masquer bearing the features of a Shamed One in his role as Yu'shaa.The New Jedi Order: Force Heretic II: Refugee During the Yuuzhan Vong invasion of the galaxy, advance agents of the Praetorite Vong made extensive use of ooglith masquers. Both Nom Anor and Yomin Carr wore ooglith masquers to pose as Humans during their infiltration missions.The New Jedi Order: Vector Prime As the war with the Yuuzhan Vong escalated, a refugee camp was established on the planet Dantooine. Yuuzhan Vong warriors used ooglith masquers to disguise themselves as refugees to attack the camp from the inside.The New Jedi Order: Dark Tide I: Onslaught *The New Jedi Order: Vector Prime *Invasion 0 *Invasion 4 *Invasion 5 *Invasion: Rescues 1 *The New Jedi Order: Dark Tide I: Onslaught *The New Jedi Order: Dark Tide II: Ruin *The New Jedi Order: Agents of Chaos I: Hero's Trial *The New Jedi Order: Agents of Chaos II: Jedi Eclipse *The New Jedi Order: Balance Point *The New Jedi Order: Edge of Victory II: Rebirth *The New Jedi Order: Star by Star *The New Jedi Order: Enemy Lines I: Rebel Dream *The New Jedi Order: Enemy Lines II: Rebel Stand *The New Jedi Order: Traitor *The New Jedi Order: Destiny's Way *The New Jedi Order: Force Heretic I: Remnant *The New Jedi Order: Force Heretic II: Refugee *The New Jedi Order: Force Heretic III: Reunion *The New Jedi Order: The Final Prophecy *The New Jedi Order: The Unifying Force *X-Wing: Mercy Kill *Star Wars Roleplaying Game Core Rulebook *The Essential Guide to Alien Species *The New Jedi Order Sourcebook *Coruscant and the Core Worlds *The New Essential Guide to Weapons and Technology *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia *Galaxy of Intrigue Category:Yuuzhan Vong technology