26903
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Ua_system
Ua system
10387

|stations= |asteroids= |comets= |nebulae= |routes=Falko Run |other= |species=Quor'sav |otherspecies=Mammalian species |socialgroup= |language= |population= |imports= |exports= |affiliation=Galactic RepublicThe Essential Reader's Companion dates the The Lando Calrissian Adventures trilogy, of which Lando Calrissian and the Flamewind of Oseon is the second installment, to between 3 BBY and 2 BBY. The latter work establishes that decades prior to the novel's events, Waywa Fybot&mdash;a Quor'sav per &mdash;had left his species' homeworld and become a law enforcement officer as part of a tribute that a treaty dictated the planet's star system pay to the galactic government. Since Fybot's departure from the Quor'sav homeworld&mdash;established to have been Uaua by &mdash;must have occurred at some point by 22 BBY per the aforementioned timeline information, and since The New Essential Chronology establishes that the Galactic Republic, a tens-of-millennia&ndash;old galaxy-wide government, was supplanted by the Galactic Empire in 19 BBY, the Ua system must have paid tribute to the Republic. }} The Ua system was a part of the Outer Rim Territories' Centrality sector. It contained the planet Uaua, which was home to the bird-like Quor'sav species. At some point by 22 BBY, the Ua system became forced by a treaty to pay tribute to the Galactic Republic. As part of the tribute, the Quor'sav Waywa Fybot was conscripted in a law enforcement agency and left his home planet, although he would revisit it in a dream decades later. The Ua system was a part of the Centrality sector in the Slice portion of the Outer Rim Territories. It was situated on the Falko Run hyperlane, which linked it to the Dilonexa and Falko systems, and the chief planet orbiting its single star was the terrestrial world Uaua. thumb|left|300px|The Quor'sav were native to the planet Uaua in the Ua system. At some point, colonists from other parts of the Centrality, mostly consisting of individuals of mammalian species, accidentally introduced a virus on Uaua for which mammals served as immune carriers but which was deadly to avian species. As a result, the native Quor'sav, sentients who had evolved from birds, nearly became extinct due to the virus and became distrustful of non-avian visitors to their homeworld, and any such off-worlders ceased to be welcome on Uaua. The Quor'sav themselves, however, were already known in the wider galaxy by 22 BBY, is set on the date 13:3:28, which corresponds to 22 BBY per the reasoning here. at which point members of the species resided on Coruscant, the Core Worlds capital world of the Galactic Republic. At some point, a treaty was signed which forced the Ua system to pay tribute to the Republic. As part of the tribute, the Quor'sav Waywa Fybot was conscripted in a law enforcement agency and left his homeworld at some point by 22 BBY. In the view of Fybot, who eventually came to work as an undercover narcotics agent in service to the Galactic Empire, his enjoyment of life diminished once he had left Uaua. Sometime between 3 BBY and 2 BBY,The Essential Reader's Companion dates the The Lando Calrissian Adventures trilogy, of which Lando Calrissian and the Flamewind of Oseon is the second installment, to between 3 BBY and 2 BBY. Fybot was traveling through the Oseon system aboard Captain Lando Calrissian's freighter, the Millennium Falcon, during the local phenomenon known as the Flamewind in order to arrest the trillionaire Bohhuah Mutdah. The Flamewind affected the perception and behavior of beings not protected by adequate shielding, with Fybot experiencing a dream in which he was transported back to Uaua. In the dream, the Quor'sav visited his former home on the planet. thumb|right|300px|Michael Kogge named the Ua system for the article "A Campaign Guide to the Centrality." The Ua system was introduced in the Wizards of the Coast roleplaying game source article "A Campaign Guide to the Centrality," which was authored by Michael Kogge and published in the fifth issue of the Star Wars Gamer magazine on July 24, 2001. The article, which built on the 1983The Essential Reader's Companion The Lando Calrissian Adventures trilogy of novels by L. Neil Smith and detailed the Centrality sector that was featured in that series, described the system's planet Uaua as the homeworld of the avian Quor'sav species. It was not until the publication of 2008's The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia, however, that Waywa Fybot, an avian character introduced in the second entry of Smith's trilogy, Lando Calrissian and the Flamewind of Oseon, was established to have been a Quor'sav. Thereby, the passage from Lando Calrissian and the Flamewind of Oseon in which Fybot visits his species' homeworld in a dream sequence was retroactively established as the first appearance of the Ua system. The 2009 reference book The Essential Atlas placed the system in grid square U-8. *Lando Calrissian and the Flamewind of Oseon *The Essential Atlas Category:Centrality locations Category:Galactic Republic star systems Category:Locations along the Falko Run Category:Star systems in the Outer Rim Territories Category:Star systems in the Slice