27419
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Supercommando_Codex
Supercommando Codex
7151

|image= |name=Supercommando Codex |dateproposed=c. 60 BBYThe New Essential Chronology |government=Mandalorian clans |legislativebody=Mand'alor'Galaxy at War |result=Mandalorian warriors are held to a progressive new standard of moral behavior |side1=*True Mandalorians *Mandalorian Protectors |side2=*Death Watch *New MandaloriansThe Essential Atlas |otherkeyindividuals= }} The Supercommando Codex was a guideline for Mandalorian behavior, created by the Mandalorian soldier Jaster Mereel upon his ascension to the role of Mand'alor in 60 BBY. A man of strong ethical principles, Mereel found that many Mandalorians of his era had become dissatisfied with the dishonorable and overly savage ways that had become prevalent among a number of the culture's warriors. Mereel chose to become a reformist, one who sought to restore honor to the clans and reinstitute the old warriors codes that had been largely forgotten over time. To that end, Mereel revived and modernized the ancient Canons of Honor that the Mandalorian Crusaders and Neo-Crusaders had followed, creating a series of several hundred commandments governing moral Mandalorian behavior, which he entitled the Supercommando Codex. The Codex, like the Canons before it, drew heavily from the Resol'nare, the six central tenets of the Mandalorian culture. From the Codex, Mereel preached that any Mandalorians who wished to fightJango Fett: Open Seasons 1 would no longer engage in the shameful activities of raiders and brigands. Instead, Mandalorian warriors were to conduct themselves as highly-paid soldiers and honorable mercenaries. Jaster Mereel's reforms were not unanimously approved of, however, and not all Mandalorians agreed to abide by the Supercommando Codex. The New Mandalorians, sometimes described as 'faithless' by Tor Vizsla, rejected participation in the conflict between the supercommandos of the True Mandalorians and those of the Death Watch , after these formations arose following the splintering of the Aka'liit. They additionally rejected Mereel's reformist warrior codes, and more radical Mandalorians banded together under Tor Vizsla to violently oppose the Codex and the changes Mereel sought to instill. Civil war broke out between the Death Watch and the True Mandalorian army of supercommandos loyal to Mereel. While the True Mandalorians were eventually decimated as a result of Death Watch's underhanded machinations, the Death Watch was similarly crippledImperial Commando: 501st at the hands of Mereel's surrogate son, Jango Fett. Long after Mereel and his True Mandalorians fell, the tenets of the Supercommando Codex lived on in Mandalorian society. The Mandalorian Protectors, for instance, drew their moral teachings from the Codex, and strove to adhere to its high standards upon being reformed by the Mandalore known as The Resurrector during the Clone Wars. Jaster Mereel's code was first alluded to in the first issue of the Jango Fett: Open Seasons comic series, but it was only with the publication of Abel G. Peña's 2005 Star Wars Insider article, The History of the Mandalorians, that the Supercommando Codex was truly introduced to the Star Wars universe. The subsequent reference book, The New Essential Chronology by Daniel Wallace, briefly mentioned the Supercommando Codex and its role in Mandalorian history, and Wallace would again feature the Codex in his later work in the Galaxy at War reference book. The online role-playing guide for the Star Wars Galaxies video game, entitled , also mentioned the Supercommando Codex as an element of a Mandalorian player's potential roleplaying backstory, as did The Essential Guide to Warfare by Jason Fry and Paul R. Urquhart. *Jango Fett: Open Seasons 1 *The New Essential Chronology *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia *Galaxy at War *The Essential Guide to Warfare Category:Doctrines Category:Mandalorian laws and acts