27691
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Concordance_of_Fealty
Concordance of Fealty
6155

thumb|Concordance of Fealty between Eeth Koth and Mace Windu The Concordance of Fealty was the Jedi tradition of exchanging one's lightsaber with that of a fellow member of the Jedi Order. This exchange was considered a sacred bond, symbolizing mutual trust. The tradition included a vow of reciprocal apprenticeship,SkyeWalkers: A Clone Wars Story though this facet was little practiced after the Cleansing of the Nine Houses, a conflict of the Old Sith Wars, and was generally undertaken only by Jedi Masters. Jedi Councilors Mace Windu and Eeth Koth completed the Concordance of Fealty shortly prior to Windu's departure on a diplomatic mission to negotiate peace between the prince of the Lannik people and the Red Iaro terrorists, approximately 32 years before the Battle of Yavin.Star Wars Omnibus: Emissaries and Assassins In 22 BBY,SkyeWalkers: A Clone Wars Story takes place during the Clone Wars and prior to Anakin Skywalker's knighting. The Essential Reader's Companion dates both the beginning of the Clone Wars and Skywalker's knighting to 22 BBY, and SkyeWalkers must therefore take place in the same year. Anakin Skywalker and Halagad Ventor engaged in the Concordance of Fealty, unusually for Padawan apprentices, during a mission to the planet Skye. Due to their exchange of lightsabers, Skye native Aragh, in a later account to Rebel pilot Luke Skywalker, would identify the two Jedi pupils as the fallen Jedi Darth Vader, and the bearer of the lightsaber belonging to Skywalker's fatherStar Wars Annual (1977) 1 Anakin, despite the fact that Vader and the elder Skywalker were in fact one and the same. On a 22 BBY mission to locate his former Padawan Jedi Master Depa Billaba on his homeworld Haruun Kal,The Essential Reader's Companion Mace Windu discovered Billaba's lightsaber in the posession of local guide Nick Rostu. Speculating on how Rostu acquired the weapon, Windu mused that it was unlikely to have been a Concordance of Fealty.Shatterpoint During the reign of the New Republic, former Emperor's Hand Mara Jade and Jedi Knight Kyle Katarn were engaged in the reciprocal apprenticeship facet of the Concordance of Fealty. *Eeth Koth and Mace Windu *Anakin Skywalker and Halagad Ventor *Kyle Katarn and Mara Jade The tradition of the Concordance of Fealty was created as a retcon to explain the difference between Mace Windu's two lightsabers, the one that appears in Star Wars: Episode I The Phantom Menace, and the one that comes with the Hasbro action figure. It was later used to explain the description of the Battle of Skye in Star Wars Annual (1977) 1 that implies Anakin Skywalker and Darth Vader to be separate people by differentiating between Darth Vader and the Jedi who wore the lightsaber worn by Luke Skywalker. In Star Wars Gamer and Aliens in the Empire, it was explained that Halagad Ventor and Anakin Skywalker had temporarily switched lightsabers for the Concordance of Fealty. *Star Wars (1998) 13 *SkyeWalkers: A Clone Wars Story *Shatterpoint *Star Wars Annual (1977) 1 *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Jedi ceremonies