27707
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Kuat_(person)
Kuat (person)
4969

Kuat of Kuat was a male Human, from a planet which bore a name identical to his. At the time of the Galactic Civil War, he was the hereditary CEO and chief designer of Kuat Drive Yards, one of the three largest starship manufacturers in the galaxy. He was the nephew of Onara Kuat and followed his father as Kuat of Kuat. During his time as head of Kuat Drive Yards, he carried the simple title of "Technician." During the Clone Wars, Kuat disagreed with his aunt on many occasions, and even blocked her attempt to have Senator Giddean Danu recalled from office. As the Imperial military-industrial complex swallowed KDY's competitors, Kuat fought to protect the independence of his family, planet, and firm. This, combined with his opposition to the Death Star project, made him unpopular amongst some of the ruling Kuati families and the Imperial elite. Kuat orchestrated a labyrinthine conspiracy to embarrass and destroy the Black Sun crime syndicate. This conspiracy also led to the break up of the Bounty Hunters' Guild into warring factions. Later, in fear of losing control of the Kuat Drive Yards, Kuat wired the entire construction docks with explosives. Boba Fett flew the Hound's Tooth into the exploding construction area, where he found Kuat inside one of the larger ships waiting for his imminent death. After a series of questions about the bombing raid of the Dune Sea, Boba Fett made Kuat leave the ship. Fett managed to pilot the ship into the vacuum of space. In the aftermath, Kuat was killed by the explosions, but the ship that Fett flew into space was a key part of the explosives, and the removal of the ship disrupted the process; 80% of the docks survived, thanks to Fett. Kuat often kept a pet felinx as company. When he left the Star Destroyer to wait for his death in the docks, Kuat found that his loyal felinx had managed to find its way out of his private quarters and tracked him there. He held the felinx close to his chest so he could listen to its heartbeat instead of the destruction around them. *The Mandalorian Armor *Slave Ship *Hard Merchandise *Platt's Starport Guide *The New Essential Guide to Characters *The New Essential Chronology *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia *The Essential Atlas *The Essential Reader's Companion Category:Business owners and executives Category:Government figures Category:House Kuat Category:Humans Category:Kuat Drive Yards personnel Category:Kuati Category:Males