27912
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Mounted_lightsaber_combat
Mounted lightsaber combat
8680

Mounted lightsaber combat was practiced when Jedi and Sith alike would have to use their lightsabers in combat while riding a mount such as a tauntaun, or mounted on a mechanical means of transportation, like a swoop bike. thumb|left|[[Jedi/Legends|Jedi Jaden Korr cutting down an Imperial Remnant snowtrooper on Hoth, while riding a tauntaun during the crisis of the Disciples of Ragnos.]] In this type of lightsaber combat, the Jedi and Sith would normally use one hand only, the other hand steering the mount. It would typically consist of simple attacks lashing out at grounded enemy units. Such attacks were normally low lunges with the lightsaber of a diagonal semi-circular nature, as the Jedi and Sith &mdash;being on a mount&mdash;would naturally be elevated in relation to the target. Thus there were some common features between mounted lightsaber combat and the airborne Trispzest lightsaber combat system, the difference being that in mounted lightsaber combat, the Jedi had much less freedom of movement. The Jedi could also use the lightsaber to incapacitate other mounted units, by lashing out at either the mount, which was efficient especially if the enemy unit was riding a swoop bike, or the rider himself. Finally, the Jedi could use the lightsaber to deflect blaster shots and the like, thus protecting himself or herself while riding the mount. thumb|right|180px|[[Yoda/Legends|Yoda on his kybuck in one of the many battles of the Clone Wars.]] Tott Doneeta and Ulic and Cay Qel-Droma ignited their lightsabers while charging on bomas into Oron Kira's citadel, but never got to use them upon finding out that that Princess Galia was marrying Kira willingly. Darth Bane, while riding a drexl from Dxun to Onderon, encountered a band of Beast Riders from the Skelda clan. It wasn't until the first enemy mount fell that he drew his weapon to deflect blasterfire from the remaining Riders. Darth Maul had wielded his saberstaff while riding his Sith speeders on two separate missions on Ralltiir and in combat with Jedi Battlemaster Anoon Bondara, followed shortly after by his ambush on a Coruscant Security Force patrol. During the Naboo Swamp Battle, he briefly rode a STAP as he charged at Boss Ganne's Gungan forces. During the Battle of Geonosis, Anakin Skywalker jumped on a transport commandeered by Padmé Amidala and used this form of combat while driving by many battle droids. In one of the major battles of the Clone Wars, Yoda could be seen on a kybuck leading his army of clones and Jedi into battle. Yoda's kybuck participated in many battles. During the Battle of Muunilinst, Obi-Wan Kenobi faced Durge riding a swoop bike, using his lightsaber to destroy Durge's swoop. Ahsoka Tano briefly used her lightsaber while chasing Aurra Sing in the canyons of Florrum. Both were riding Starhawk speeder bikes. thumb|left|200px|Obi-Wan Kenobi engages Durge on a speeder bike Yoda engaged the Separatist armies mounted on his kybuck during General Grievous' daring attempt to kidnap Supreme Chancellor Palpatine. Elsewhere in the battle, Mace Windu personally commandeered a Vulture droid immediately after his starfighter was destroyed; he used his right hand to yank the cranial wires, while using his left to both utilize his lightsaber and the Force against the enemy fighters. In the Battle of Utapau, Obi-Wan Kenobi chased General Grievous' wheel bike riding a varactyl&mdash;named Boga&mdash;using the general's own electrostaff to attack his wheelbike. While not using his lightsaber (which he had lost), Obi-Wan did use the staff in much the same way that he would have used a lightsaber. Jaden Korr, apprentice to Kyle Katarn in Luke Skywalker's New Jedi Order may possibly have been mounted on a tauntaun while engaging snowtroopers on a mission to Hoth. On a mission to Zonju V, Korr rode a swoop bike, was attacked by several mercenaries on swoops, many of which he killed using mounted lightsaber combat techniques. Another scene of the Battle of Utapau was in the making in animatics. Obi-Wan Kenobi starts chasing General Grievous's wheel bike riding Boga, and he uses his lightsaber to destroy two droids. This scene did not make it into the film. Also, during the Battle of Utapau, Obi-Wan Kenobi uses his lightsaber to block oncoming blaster bolts while riding Boga. This is another example of mounted lightsaber combat. In Star Wars: Jedi Knight: Jedi Academy during the Mission to Hoth it is possible (through the use of force speed) to obtain a Tauntaun and use it in the duel with Alora, however as the cut screens show Jaden Korr fighting Alora on foot regardless, meaning this is non-canon. *Darth Maul (2000) 3 *Darth Maul: Shadow Hunter *Episode I Adventures 3: The Fury of Darth Maul *Star Wars (1998) 17 *Star Wars (1998) 18 *Jedi Quest: The Master of Disguise *Republic 58 *Dark Times—Out of the Wilderness 3 *Dark Times—Out of the Wilderness 4 *Super Star Wars: The Empire Strikes Back *Star Wars: Shadows of the Empire novel *Star Wars: Jedi Knight: Jedi Academy }} *The Jedi Path: A Manual for Students of the Force *Star Wars: Force and Destiny Core Rulebook Category:Lightsaber combat