28051
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Crimson_Command
Crimson Command
5520

Crimson Command was the command division of the Galactic Empire Quelii Oversector. Initially serving under Warlord Zsinj, it would become the de facto flotilla post-Endor of the Federated Teradoc Union, and later the United Warlord Fleets, consisting of Imperial Victory-class Star Destroyers. The command was dubbed "Crimson" for the red-hulled havod alloy Victory-class Star Destroyers contained within it. Its flagship was the Star Destroyer 13X. The fleet was designed under the premise that it was better to have a large number of smaller, more mobile ships than a smaller number of larger, slower ships. Prior to 4 ABY, the Crimson Command was given to Zsinj, Grand Moff of the Quelii Oversector, in recognition of his brilliant career. The fleet joined his Sector Fleet which became the largest fleet of the Empire and Zsinj received the title of High Admiral of Crimson Command. The fleet fell under the control of the self-styled "High Admiral" Treuten Teradoc, a breakaway Imperial warlord after the death of warlord Zsinj. In 12 ABY, the flotilla's commanding officer was Vice Admiral Gilad Pellaeon. At this time, they numbered 73 Victory-class Star Destroyers, with 11 being destroyed at the Battle of Harrsk's fortress. Following the unification of the Deep Core warlords by Admiral Daala, the unit's number would be increased to 112 warships, not all of which had red hulls, yet it would retain the name Crimson Command. In a series of guerrilla raids against the New Republic, two of the ships were destroyed, both at the attack on the Chardaan Shipyards. Colonel Ivan Cronus was appointed to take twenty of the Crimson Command ships to help in Daala's assault on Yavin 4, leaving the remainder to continue their guerrilla raiding. During Daala's failed assault on the Jedi Praxeum, three Crimson Command ships (including 13X) were destroyed in combat against a New Republic fleet, killing Cronus and all those aboard. *Darksaber *The Essential Chronology *The New Essential Chronology *The Essential Atlas *The Essential Guide to Warfare Category:Imperial fleets