28440
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Ibbot
Ibbot
4632

The ibbot was a colorful avian creature native to the planet Drall. Sixty-eight varieties of ibbots existed, each specialized to fit in a particular niche of Drall ecology. They came in a wide range of sizes, ranging from the blue-breasted hover ibbot (wingspan 7 centimeters) to the Great ibbot (wingspan 10 meters). Great Ibbots were used by the division of Drall police called the Wingriders. Many were herbivores that fed on algae that grew along the banks of the seas. Flame ibbots scraped algae off rocks along shore of the Boiling Sea. They were capable of squirting a jet of scalding waters at predators. A few, such as the yellowtail ibbot hawk and the crested arrow ibbot were predators. The Drall raised a domestic variety, the common (or brown) ibbot, to eat. It had a mild, slightly salty taste and could be prepared in numerous ways. When Drall sampled offworld food, they would often say, "it tastes like ibbot." Native to the Core Worlds planet Drall were 68 distinct classes of ibbot, each of which was classified as an avian and filled a particular ecological niche. The different varieties sizes' varied dramatically, with the blue-breasted hover ibbot having a wingspan of just 7 centimeters compared to the great ibbot's wingspan of 10 meters. Ibbots were primarily coastal creatures. Most were herbivorous, though some varieties, such as the yellowtail ibbot hawk and crested arrow ibbot, were carnivorous. The flame ibbot was named because it had the ability to shoot a stream of boiling water at enemies. Some ibbots were migratory creatures who were attracted to the blooms of algae in Drall's Boiling Sea, which they then consumed. Both flame ibbots and great ibbots lived in herds. The Wingriders, a division of Drall's police force, used great ibbots to patrol, travel and facilitate trade between cities, and serve as a communication network. The ibbots roosted in a garrison on a plateau north of the town of Meccha. One of the Wingriders, Elamm, rode an ibbot named Sha'lott, which was the Drallish for "graywing." In addition to taming the great ibbot, Drall's native Drall species domesticated an ibbot variety that was variously known as the common ibbot or the brown ibbot. The bird tasted mild and slightly salty and was prepared in a number of different ways. Because of this, Drall regularly stated that food from offworld "[tasted] like ibbot." *Star Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds *MedStar I: Battle Surgeons *MedStar I: Battle Surgeons abridged audiobook *The Essential Guide to Planets and Moons *Coruscant and the Core Worlds *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia *Suns of Fortune Category:Birds