28512
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Foamwander_City
Foamwander City
4899

Foamwander City was one of the oldest and largest floating cities on Dac, floating in a pattern around the Knowledge Bank. One of the oldest floating cities on Dac, Foamwander City's outer shell design was analogous to that of a Mon Calamari Star Cruiser, while on the whole it was very similar to an iceberg. Its top side consisted of mostly entry ports and hangar bays while the bottom, underneath the surface of the water, was the main portion of the city. Foamwander City was one of the largest cities on Dac and a major center for commerce and industry. Beyond its role in the planetary economy, the city's name was generally associated with the Foamwander Five for their actions in organizing the Mon Calamari resistance during the Galactic Civil War. Cilghal lived there. The city sustained great amounts of damage after an assault by Admiral Natasi Daala, though Admiral Gial Ackbar and his assistant Terpfen quickly oversaw construction to repair the city. Foamwander City was one of thousands of great artificial cities that were found on the surface of Dac's oceans, which were built over several millennia as slowly evolving works of art. Cities which represent the Mon Calamari's history and heritage, which even preserve vestiges of the Imperial occupation, however unpleasant that time was for the Mon Calamari. The construction of the city appeared lumpy but smooth, and somewhat looked like an organic coral reef. With the harsh angles and flat planes confined to the forest of reinforced watchtowers and communication antennas rising from the top of the city. Elsewhere on the drifting metropolis, it's surfaces are all soft angles and polished outcroppings, with a great hemispherical dome covering the city itself. Underneath the city, towers and descending complexes faced downward. The upper levels of the city were the domain of the Mon Calamari. With gleaming white decor and architecture in an artistically functional style. Transporation in these levels were provided by small repulsorlift tram lines. Foamwander City was an important center of Mon Calamari government, and played an important part when it came to planetary defense. In the heart of the city was Central Command, one of the few command centers that was in charge with orbital defense, along with the Reef Home City and Coral Depths. The lower submarine levels in turn were mainly the preserve of the Quarren. Who preferred transparisteel in their construction, giving them a view out to the underseaa landsscape. Levels with dimmer lightning than the Mon Calamari areas, reflected thourhg the walls and faceted glowlamps. In the water around the city, between the undersea towers were a thicket of nettings, mooring lines, transport tubes, satellite cages, and small submersible vehicles. Further down, Quarren deep sea mining operations were active on the seabed.The Jedi Academy Sourcebook *Dark Apprentice *Young Jedi Knights: Crisis at Crystal Reef *The Jedi Academy Sourcebook *Wretched Hives of Scum & Villainy *Star Wars Encyclopedia *Geonosis and the Outer Rim Worlds *Star Wars Roleplaying Game Saga Edition Core Rulebook *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia *The Essential Atlas *Star Wars: Age of Rebellion Core Rulebook *Fly Casual *Strongholds of Resistance Category:Cities on Mon Cala