28826
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Battle_of_Drexel
Battle of Drexel
7038

The Battle of Drexel took place just after the Battle of Yavin during the Galactic Civil War. It was fought between the ship-dwellers of the Great Ship and the Dragon Lords, exiles from the city-ship that took command of the sea-dragons of Drexel. The battle resulted in victory for the Dragon Lords and major damage to the city-ship. Han Solo, Princess Leia Organa, Luke Skywalker, and Chewbacca participated in the battle and later engaged in a space skirmish with the pirate Crimson Jack. After the Battle of Yavin, Luke Skywalker left for a scouting mission to find a new place for a Rebel base, along with the droids R2-D2 and C-3PO. During his search, Skywalker stumbled upon the Drexel system. He attempted to tell Princess Leia Organa about it, but his transmission was interrupted, so the Princess decided to find Skywalker by herself and was captured by the pirate Crimson Jack. Skywalker was found by the ship-dwellers and became their Master Machinesmith. Not long after, the smuggler Han Solo was also captured while returning from Aduba-3. By telling Crimson Jack about a secret treasure, they persuaded him to go to the Drexel system. While on the surface of Drexel, Skywalker was captured by the ship-dwellers and learned that his ship was brought down by a powerful sonic-jammer. Soon, Crimson Jack's refitted battlecruiser entered the system. While it was disabled by the sonic-jammer, Solo, Organa, and Chewbacca managed to escape on the Millennium Falcon. As they landed, a full scale battle began between dragon lords and ship-dwellers. One skimmer shot at the Millennium Falcon, but Skywalker destroyed it. After that, Chewbacca tried to kill Luke Skywalker, suspecting that he was the one who was shooting at the Falcon, but R2's extinguisher calmed the Wookiee. Meanwhile, Leia Organa was captured by the city-ship governor Quarg, and Han Solo was rescued by the Dragon Lords. One of them explained to Solo that the sonic-jammer caused the sea-dragons to go mad. Meanwhile, by threatening Organa's life, Quarg made Skywalker connect the Falcon power to the sonic-jammer and the sea-dragons began to die. While the governor was busy, Solo, who arrived on a sea-dragon, used a gun system to destroy the sonic-jammer. While on the city-ship, Organa escaped with the help from Chewbacca and Luke Skywalker. Unfortunately, as soon as the Falcon was repaired, Crimson Jack's fighters arrived from orbit. The battle, for the Rebels at least, soon continued in space. Solo and Skywalker managed to destroy two fighters, but the female pirate Jolli damaged the Falcon gyro control module before being hit and sent out of control. While trying to convince Solo to surrender, Jack found that the smuggler had erased all his navicomputer charts. The pirate agreed to meet Solo in open space, protected only by the magnetic field from Jack's battlecruiser and trade a Gyro Control Module for the charts. Jolli also asked for Jack's help, but he dismissed her, leaving her abandoned. However, during the exchange, Jack betrayed Solo, called his thugs and sealed the magnetic field between Solo and the Falcon. Solo was forced to make a last stand, but he was assisted by an enraged Jolli, who returned to kill all the pirates, except Jack himself, and cut into the battlecruiser's control bridge. Using this distraction, Solo killed Crimson Jack with a shot in the chest. After giving Jolli her first and last kiss and repairing the Falcon, Solo and the others departed the Drexel system. Crimson Jack's battlecruiser kept drifting above Drexel, until it was found by Jabba's accountant, Mosep Binneed. He also learned that Han Solo was responsible for its destruction, from the ship's log. Because Jabba had helped to refit that battlecruiser, the bounty which had been taken off of Han's head after the Orleon incident, was reinstated. That bounty that was in time collected by Boba Fett. *Star Wars (1977) 12 *Star Wars (1977) 13 *Star Wars (1977) 14 *Star Wars (1977) 15 *Star Wars: The Roleplaying Game, Second Edition, Revised and Expanded *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia *The Essential Atlas Category:Battles in the Drexel system Category:Events of the Galactic Civil War