29056
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Orfite
Orfite
3456

The Orfites were sapients indigenous to Kidron. Due to Kidron's thin atmosphere, they had four large lungs in their cavernous chests. Orfites had broad noses with large nostrils and frilled olfactory lobes. Their skin had an orange cast, with fine red hair covering their scalps and trailing down their backs. Little dimorphism existed between the sexes, though females tended to have thick eyebrows. As their home world of Kidron had low gravity, most Orfites who ventured away from it required the assistance of a power harness for normal movement and comfort. Orfite society revolved around the sense of smell, their most powerfully-developed sense. They produced strong pheromones, and used them to distinguish among one another in the same way Humans distinguished faces. Orfites had a primitive society centered around a tribal gathering called a sahh. Each sahh had control over a vast tract of the Kidron jungle. They traded with off-worlders, and a small colony of refugees, through barter in native Kril meat. Orfite society was peaceful and non-aggressive leading to no history of warfare between the sahhs. They were generous and shared their resources; thieves and violent criminals were scarred and banished from their sahhs. Disgruntled individuals were free to leave their sahh and form a new one with other Orfite who shared the same views. The Orfites established the Council of Gordek to deal with off-world visitors and the various sahhs. thumb|left|170px|Orfites with Orfite scent masks The Orfa Olfactory Corporation was started through a co-op between several Sahhs and off-world investors. It produced a scent mask apparatus, which consisted of a breath mask connected via small tube to a belt unit. The unit held a half-liter of water and was designed to accept small tablets, that it used to form the mask's inhalant. Though Scent Masks were designed to create complex pheromone entertainments for Orfites, many intoxicant tablets have been produced that had made them popular across the Elrood sector. *Planet of Twilight *Planets of the Galaxy, Volume Three *Creatures of the Galaxy *The Star Wars Planets Collection *Star Wars Galaxy Magazine 8 *Alien Encounters *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Mammalian sentient species Category:Outer Rim Territories sentient species