29269
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Kari
Kari
3451

The Kari were small sentient insectoids covered with a black exoskeleton. They were the only sentient race indigenous to Karideph. Their language was similar to singing, appearing closer to the whistling and beeping of droids rather than a sentient species' speech.Galaxy Guide 6: Tramp Freighters They were bipedal and walked on two powerful legs and possessed two smaller 'arm' appendages used to manipulate their environment as well as objects. Being an insectoid species this resulted in a hive-like society being formed. As such, an individual Kari possessed limited intelligence. However, the bigger the group of Kari, the greater the combined intellect would be. The average Kari day involved growing food to feed the 100 billion Kari that inhabited the homeworld. To aid them in feeding their people, the Kari became quite adept at creating small mechanical appliances and machines which they exported in exchange for more food. The base group in Kari society was called a Hatch, which was made up of 20 to 30 Kari that all shared one name and one personality. Their homeworld's surface was entirely covered by massive cultivated gardens and dotted with huge cities with buildings so tall that their upper extent needed to be pressurized. Despite these enormous structures, a vast majority of the Kari lived in an underground system of tunnels. This resulted in many of the species almost never coming to the surface and, thus, never experiencing the light of their sun. One of their unique traits was developing a system of songs that served to teach history from one generation to the next. This resulted in a form of Bards being produced among the Kari with each Hatch possessing at least one singer who would preserve the history of the Hatch and 'sing' it to other Hatches. During the time of the New Order, the Galactic Empire banned the Kari from participating or even developing space travel. This was due to the fear that the massive population growth rate of the Kari would have resulted in them outnumbering and overrunning Human society. Despite this imposed limitation, many Hatches of Kari have a strong desire of leaving their planet. *Galaxy Guide 6: Tramp Freighters *Galaxy Guide 6: Tramp Freighters, Second Edition *Lords of the Expanse *Alien Encounters *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Insectoid sentient species Category:Outer Rim Territories sentient species