29430
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Adventurer
Adventurer
5275

The Adventurer was a Verpine skiff design, roughly the size of a starfighter. Designed as a personal sporting craft before the ascent of the Galactic Empire, the Adventurer looked sleek and speedy, but this outward appearance was misleading - its actual performance capabilities were decidedly modest, and its crew compartment not particularly comfortable.Before the Storm The hull was an aerodynamic lifting body design, providing additional lift in atmospheric flight, where it used hoverjets in place of repulsorlifts for propulsion. The realspace thrusters for space travel had a modest class 2.5 rating. To reduce the construction cost of the ship, the Adventurer's main power bus had a relatively modest capability, incapable of simultaneously handling the realspace propulsion and navigation systems and those associated with the hyperdrive - instead, it was fitted with a cascade processor which managed their sequential deactivation and activation during transit to and from lightspeed, but which was vulnerable to power surges during reversion to realspace.Tyrant's Test Although there was a competent hypercomm,Shield of Lies as well as a navcom and and a navigational deflector, the type was not equipped with anything resembling military-grade shields as standard, nor with weapons or an astromech droid slot. In addition, the hyperdrive was configured with a FCZ lockout, designed to prevent it from making the jump to lightspeed inside a Flight Control Zone such as planetary orbit. The ship's computer interface did not allow systems such as the FCZ lockout to be modified or overridden. Nonetheless, upgrades to the systems were available - for example, the navigational deflector could be improved beyond the basic Block 1 configuration to at least a Block 3 standard. Hotwiring some components was also relatively simple, such as deactivating the FCZ lockout, which was connected to the nav controller rather than the hyperdrive motivator. The boarding hatch was accessed by a somewhat slender-looking boarding ladder. Internally, the Adventurer had a single open cabin, which combined a relatively spacious flight deck area with a forward-facing viewport and seats for a pilot and co-pilot, and an accommodation section with a single bunk and a cramped refresher, both of them screened by curtains. There was also a cargo hold, which could accommodate a reasonable quantity of supplies and luggage, and a floor hatch in the deck gave internal maintenance access to the drive compartment. At least some ships also had a meal service console which could serve three different drinks and a variety of food options. At least in the era of the New Republic, the vintage ship was considered unsuitable for any activity beyond pleasure rides, or at best, short business trips to outlying systems that were not served by regular commercial flights. One particular Adventurer was used by Akanah Norand Goss Pell, who travelled aboard it with Luke Skywalker during the Black Fleet Crisis. Luke gave the ship the name Mud Sloth, reflecting its dawdling performance compared with the starfighters he was used to. *Before the Storm *Before the Storm abridged audiobook *Shield of Lies *Shield of Lies abridged audiobook *Tyrant's Test *Tyrant's Test abridged audiobook *The Essential Guide to Planets and Moons *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Starfighter classes Category:Verpine culture