29459
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Caarite
Caarite
4729

The Caarites were a sentient porcine species indigenous to the planet Caarimon. The species typically displayed broad grins, bearing a double row of flat, wide, and perfectly white teeth.Living Force Campaign Guide Because of their native habitat, the species was well-suited for surviving in hot climates. Since extreme cold was unknown to this species, their ability to survive in such environments was hindered more than most species. They were typically sly, ingratiating beings with an eye for profit. Their penchant for crooked business dealings was regularly cloaked by their friendly demeanor. This caused them to suffer from a poor reputation, though, making outsider trust of the species rare. When dealing with large groups of individuals directly, their charm was often described as "childlike," exemplifying their guise of innocence. They were often described as "friendly, entertaining, and humorous." Every Caarite knew the native Caarimala language, Galactic Basic Standard, and at least one other language. Communication was considered a fundamental skill for their society. This was especially true as the species favored nonviolent means of dealing with an adversary in a face-to-face encounter. Caarites were occasionally Force-sensitive, though their inherent greed prevented them from truly embracing the ways of the Jedi. The Caarites were members of the Trade Federation. When the Federation blockaded Naboo, the Caarites were convinced it would cause the end of the Federation, so convinced the Filordi to split off with them in forming the Metatheran Cartel. Of the two member species of the Cartel, the Caarites served as the public face. As the Caarites were well-known in the Cularin system, the alien ever-smiling crew of the local Dorumaa Resort were jokingly known as "Neo-Caarites," even though they were Gungans, Humans and Twi'leks. *Living Force Campaign Guide *Ultimate Alien Anthology *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia *The Clone Wars Campaign Guide Category:Mammalian sentient species Category:Outer Rim Territories sentient species