29499
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Foonar
Foonar
4973

Foonars were horned, scaly pachydermoids found in the grasslands on the forest moon of Endor. Foonars were large quadrupedal pachydermoids, covered with fur. The had a couple of horns and a series of scales that descended from their backs to their tails. Some members had colorful fur at the top of their heads.Ewoks (1985) 5 The Bright Tree Village tribe knew about a herd of foonars that lived in the grassland, led by a huge female. Considered gentle beasts, at some point one young calf was named as Dooni by the Ewoks, who knew that his mother would never go off and leave him alone. In 3 ABY dates the events of the Ewoks comic book series, which include the events of Ewoks 5, to three years after the events of Star Wars: Episode IV A New Hope, which corresponds to 3 ABY, according to The New Essential Chronology. such herd of foonars was captured and forced in submission by a group of alien woodsmen, led by an individual named Rok. He and his men wanted to used the foonars to push their harvester to cut down the trees, which included those holding the Bright Tree Village. Wicket Wystri Warrick and Kneesaa a Jari Kintaka managed to active the harvester to take by surprise the invaders and, with the help of the female foonar, pushed the machines to threaten their ship. The harvesters fled the planet and the foonars ended their menace by pushing the harvester off a cliff, destroying it. thumb|An [[Eodon, another species of pachydermoids found on Endor.]] The Foonar species made its first appearance in the fifth issue of the 1985 Star Wars: Ewoks comic series, published in October 1, 1985.Marvel Age 32 In the comic issue it is stated that the foonars lived in the grassland of Endor. Such grassland could be referencing to the Endorian Grasslands, first featured in the Star Wars: Ewoks episode "The Land of the Gupins" and released the same month of the comic. However the comic was released 25 days before the airing of the TV episode in October 26. Another species of pachydermoids, in the form of Eodon, was shown to exist on Endor according to the episode "Hard Sell". Both species featured what appeared to be horns and a scaly back. No sources has ever acknowledged if the two species are in some way related. *Ewoks (1985) 5 Category:Creatures of Endor Category:Creatures of unspecified diet Category:Grassland and plains creatures Category:Species of undefined sentience Category:Vertebrates