29651
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Hirog
Hirog
7658

}} Hirog was a male Hiromi, and First Officer of the Hiromi Empire mothership Kuratcha. He proved to be an extremely unlucky spy and saboteur as he tried to expedite the Hiromi dream of galactic conquest. Working as an aide of Admiral Ackbar of the Alliance of Free Planets, he tried to undermine their stability by starting a war between two member species, the Lahsbee and the Ewoks. He managed to implicate a Lahsbane delegate in improper behavior with the Ewok Princess Kamida, ensuring the protocol droid C-3PO was there to observe it. When, as predicted, the droid reported what he had seen, Tippet, a member of the Bright Tree Village betrothed to the Princess, declared war against the Lashbees. thumb|left|250px|Hirog prepares his bomb. While the situation escalated, Hirog also observed the strange phenomenon of the Jedi Knights, in case they should pose a hidden threat to the Hiromi Empire. Watching Luke Skywalker train with some Lahsbee, Hirog was knocked out by a Force-deflected rock. This encounter produced a healthy fear and respect for Jedi abilities, which would prove useful later. Continuing with his plans, Hirog waited until word of the Ewok-Lahsbane conflict had spread through the Alliance forces, then constructed a bomb. Aiming to kill the Alliance leadership, Hirog would ensure the blame fall on the Ewoks and Lahsbane, creating a spilt in the Alliance. His attempt backfired when, in the midst of an honor duel between the Lahsbee and Tippet, a stray blasterbolt activated the bomb before the timer was set. Fleeing the undergrowth, Hirog drew the attention of the enraged Lahsbee—now in Huhk form—who threw a rock after him, crushing the bomb. It saved Hirog's life but foiled his plan. Hearing Hirog's screams of panic on the surface, and the roars of the Huhk, the Hiromi mothership Kuratcha subsequently abandoned him on Endor. Making his way back to the Hiromi forces, Hirog was given a second chance. Not to be deterred from their destiny, the Hiromi had continued with their plans of galactic domination, invading Zeltros as part of Operation: Glorious Destiny. Once again, First Officer Hirog was on the frontlines during the Battle of Zeltros, this time joined by a Hiromi squad including Captain Hookyr and Ensigns Phoebe and Tahkay. Ensign Phoebe was smuggled into the Zeltros capital and tasked with subduing Arno and Leonie, the King and Queen of Zeltros. Phoebe kept in contact with Hirog as she prepared to carry out her mission.Star Wars (1977) 104 Unfortunately for Hirog and the Hiromi Empire, their plan caught a little snag. The Jedi Luke Skywalker overheard their plan and made an effort to question Hirog about his conversation with Phoebe. Captain Hookyr's quick thinking saved the day as he pressed a blaster into Skywalker's back and took him prisoner. The Hoojib Plif was also taken prisoner alongside the Jedi. Their plan now back on track, Hirog contacted Phoebe once again, to confirm that the Zeltron leaders had been subdued. Phoebe confirmed the King and Queen's incapacitation (they had drunk themselves into an incoherent stupor), and the Hiromi initiated the next phase of their plan. thumb|right|300px|The [[Hiromi, with Luke Skywalker and several Hoojibs, attack the Tof pirates.]] Infiltrating the Zeltron Palace, their force managed to capture the throne room—while no one else was around—placing Captain Hookyr the First on the throne. Continuing with their plans, they then secured the Royal Kitchens and proceeded to prepare a feast of sandwiches to celebrate their victory. However, the subsequent invasion by the Nagai, and later the Tofs, foiled the Hiromi plans. A Tof invasion force led by an unidentified Supreme stormed the Royal Kitchen and began to brutally interrogate Hirog. Luckily for the Hiromi, their "captive" Jedi was able to save the day, killing the Tof leadership and freeing the Hiromi. Hirog soon struck an important peace deal with Alliance representative Luke Skywalker, and the Hiromi joined forces with the Alliance to defeat the Tof invasion force.Star Wars (1977) 105 Hirog and his soldiers then helped to storm the Wayfarer and rescue the four captured Zeltron aides. With the successful end to the Battle of Zeltros, and a peace treaty with the Alliance, Hirog requested a transfer for himself and the entire crew of the Kuratcha to return to the hidden Hiromi homeworld, rather than continue in the upcoming war against the Tofs. *Star Wars (1977) 94 *Star Wars (1977) 104 *Star Wars (1977) 105 *Star Wars (1977) 106 *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Alliance to Restore the Republic members Category:Hiromi Category:Males Category:Officers Category:Spies