29922
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Keed
Keed
8312

|haircolor=Dark |feathers= |eyecolor= |distinctions=Folded facial structures |lifespan= |origin=Keedad |habitat= |diet= |language= }} The Keed were a near-Human species from the Outer Rim Territories planet Keedad. They shared their homeworld with Human colonists since the early history of the Galactic Republic. Around 26 BBY, the Keed/Human hybrid Ytavarg Aleema was born on Keedad. Ger Plortor, a scout for the Shad Furies shockball team, recruited Aleema after witnessing him participate in a lettranin game on Keedad. Afterward, the Keed athlete eventually became the most renowned shockball player in the galaxy. At one point during the Galactic Civil War, after killing a group of Human Galactic Empire agents in retaliation for their murder of a fellow alien shockball player, Aleema also became a secret Rebel Alliance patron and agent. The Keed were a sentient near-Human species that could produce offspring with Humans. A Keed/Human hybrid had a humanoid body plan with two arms and two legs. They had light-colored skin, a ridged forehead, and folded facial structures near the nostrils of their broad nose as well as to the sides of their eyes. A hybrid's head could sport long dark hair. Members of the Keed society identified as belonging to at least one&mdash;male&mdash;gender. thumb|left|300px|The Keed were native to Keedad, in the Auril sector. The Keed were native to the planet Keedad in the Outer Rim Territories' Auril sector &mdash; Based on corresponding data for Keedad system During the early history of the Galactic Republic, which was established in 25,053 BBY,Star Wars: The Old Republic Encyclopedia Keedad was settled by Humans. Ytavarg Aleema was a male Keed descendant of Keedad's Human inhabitants who was born on the planet around 26 BBY.Cracken's Rebel Operatives, which is set shortly after the Battle of Yavin, gives Ytavarg Aleema's age as 26 years old, which corresponds to a birth date of around 26 BBY per The New Essential Chronology. At one point, Aleema participated in a pick-up game of Keedad's local lettranin sport. The vacationing Ger Plortor, a scout for the prominent, Core Worlds&ndash;based shockball team the Shad Furies, who was watching the game, later recruited the Keed athlete for the team, and Aleema accompanied the scout to the Core Worlds. thumb|right|300px|General Airen Cracken (pictured) included an entry on the Keed Ytavarg Aleema to a datafile detailing various Rebel Alliance operatives. The Keed Ytavarg Aleema eventually became the most talented and renowned shockball player in the galaxy, with his face being known throughout the Galactic Empire despite that government being generally Humanocentric.The Essential Atlas At some point during the Galactic Civil War, by the time shortly after the Battle of Yavin, after a game between the Shad Furies and Quent Assassins teams, a group of seven Humans who appeared to be unruly Furies fans&mdash;but in reality were agents of an Imperial Moff&mdash;beat the alien Assassins player Ap Kormar, who was suspected to have been a sympathizer of the Rebel Alliance, to death. Aleema, who was appalled at the act and was attempting to protect Kormar, then used his shockball equipment to, in turn, kill all of the attackers. After certain political maneuvering, the Keed was allowed back onto his team, but eventually he also became a valuable Rebel foster agent. In that capacity, Aleema&mdash;while himself touring the Core Worlds with the Shad Furies&mdash;temporarily housed Rebel agents in need of shelter at his mansion on the Core Worlds &mdash; Based on corresponding data for Melinz system celestial body Melinz. Additionally, the affluent athlete also funneled half of his income to the Rebel Alliance, and eventually, the Human Alliance general Airen Cracken added an entry dedicated to the Keed agent to a datafile detailing various Rebel operatives. The Keed were created by Craig Robert Carey and was introduced in Cracken's Rebel Operatives, a 1994 West End Games sourcebook published for use with Star Wars: The Roleplaying Game. In the book, the Keed Ytavarg Aleema was illustrated by Mike Vilardi. *Cracken's Rebel Operatives Category:Auril sector sentient species Category:Human and Near-Human species