30060
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Unidentified_Sarrish_species
Unidentified Sarrish species
4246

A red-skinned reptilian sentient species was indigenous to the planet of Sarrish. A sentient species, they possessed reptilian features. They had glossy red skin and light yellow eyes, with slightly protruding and discolored teeth. Their heads appeared to be partially bifurcated, with a deep ridge that ran toward the back of their skull. They possessed thick lips, a heavy brow, and small ears. They lived on a planet of the same name, a world that possessed rocky plains and plateaus. As members of the Galactic Republic, they were represented within the Galactic Senate. Despite being members of the Republic, they maintained their own military, the Sarrish Defense Force. At least one member of this species, Veedaaz Awmetth, possessed prominent white tattoos upon his face. At some point in their history, they joined the Galactic Republic and became members of the Galactic Senate. During the last years of that august body, Senator Veedaaz Awmetth represented the Vensensor sector within the galactic government. In 22 BBY, the Republic was wracked with conflict as the Confederacy of Independent Systems incited both the government and the Jedi Order to action, beginning the Clone Wars. Though their sector laid close to Separatist-controlled space, they remained loyal to the Republic. Circa 20 BBY, the Separatist Droid Army entrenched themselves upon the planet's surface, forcing the Grand Army of the Republic into a ground war. Though brave actions by Jedi Master Obi-Wan Kenobi and Commander CC-2224 seemed to turn the tide of the battle, in the end, Sarrish became the site of one of the Confederacy's greatest victories. At the end of the Clone Wars, in 19 BBY, Senator Padmé Amidala died during childbirth and was sent to her homeworld of Naboo to be buried. Sarrish Senator Awmetth was one of many mourners who attended her funeral. Veedaaz Awmetth, the only member of this species to appear to date, was a character portrayed by Nicholas Ferguson for Revenge of the Sith. His appearance, however, never made it into the final release of the film. Dave Elsey, the creature shop creative supervisor for Revenge of the Sith, based Veedaaz's appearance on a possible design of Palpatine as an alien; the two share similar patterns on their heads. *Star Wars: Revenge of the Sith: The Visual Dictionary *Star Wars Chronicles: The Prequels Category:Expansion Region sentient species Category:Reptilian sentient species