30275
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Droid_marine
Droid marine
4363

The droid marine was a variant of the B1-Series battle droid variant deployed by the Confederacy of Independent Systems during the Clone Wars. They specialized in boarding enemy ships. thumb|left|200px|Droid marines had green markings on their armor. The droid marine was designed by Baktoid Combat Automata and saw combat against the Republic Navy. Bearing green markings on their skeletal forms, droid marines were equipped with a standard battle droid E-5 blaster rifle, E-60R missile launcher, and supplied with four thermal detonators. They also wore a backpack like object with them, much like other B1 counterparts. They had the ability to pilot ships, but their primary function was to either defend their capital ship, or board an enemy ship. They were almost never seen on the ground. thumb|230px|right|Droid marines boarding an Imperial Star Destroyer during the Battle of Mustafar. Serving as a Separatist capital ship's last line of defense against clone boarders, they were also useful for boarding the Republic's Venator-class Star Destroyers and destroying them from within. They penetrate the inner workings of a Republic vessel and blow up the shield generator, letting a CIS cruiser destroy the star destroyer. Droid marines almost proved themselves as worthy opponents for the Clone marines and Pilots of the Clone Army. They could board by landing in the hangar of an enemy cruiser. After the execution of the Separatist Council, these units were de-activated. However, some would be used by the separatist fugitive Gizor Dellso in the Battle of Mustafar. The droid marine was created for Star Wars: Battlefront II, in that game they are the only B1 variant that uses the E-5 blaster rifle. As with the marine units of the other factions, they are only present in space battles. *Star Wars: Battlefront II Category:B1-series battle droid models Category:Droid models of the Confederacy of Independent Systems