30551
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Tour_Aryon
Tour Aryon
7641

Tour Aryon was the Human female who served as governor of the desert planet Tatooine under the Galactic Empire. She was a native from Treylon II. }} Tour Aryon was born on the planet Treylon II. She met and married her husband, Kant, the son of a wealthy baron and baroness. He was a con artist who moved in underworld circles, but recanted the life so as not to jeopardize Aryon's political career when she was appointed as Tatooine's Imperial governor. Upon her arrival, Aryon moved her offices into a palatial house located in Bestine, and immediately appointed Orun Depp as Imperial Prefect. She placed him in charge of running Tatooine's day-to-day affairs. Aryon's contributions to Tatooine focused on the cultural, much of which was lost on the average Tatooinian. She established a museum in Bestine, which boasted the only complete Krayt dragon skeleton on the planet, and hosted lavish garden parties with expensive, imported entertainment. Aryon did not respect the citizens of Mos Eisley, considering them to be peasants and savages. The governor maintained an agent in the city who reported directly to her who was known as "Prophetess." When Darth Vader sent his own stormtroopers to the surface of Tatooine to search for R2-D2 and C-3PO, Tour objected, insisting that her own troops could handle it. When Vader was informed of her objections, he did not care.'Star Wars Episode IV: A New Hope novel After Imperial Prefect Orun Depp was assassinated by the assassin droid IG-72, Governor Tour replaced him with Eugene Talmont. Tour Aryon was sharp and quick-witted, capable of analyzing a situation quickly and then reacting appropriately. Despite her slight appearance, the governor projected an imposing presence. She often took on the air of a general when inspecting her troops. Ayron wore fashionable clothing and spent her time throwing parties and entertaining guests. Her objective was to keep Tatooine quiet and peaceful, which would allow her to secure a promotion and a relocation away from the planet. The term "tourist" entered Mos Eisley's local slang meaning "a person was unable to get anything done." It was in reference to Governor Aryon's inability to actually accomplish anything, and its usage was deliberately confusing to visitors to the settlement. The scenes where Imperial Chief Moradmin Bast and Vader discussed Aryon's objections were cut from the final film of A New Hope, but were used for The Star Wars Holiday Special, albeit with altered dialogue in which Vader and a Bast look-alike discussed finding Chewbacca and Han Solo on Kashyyyk. thumb|Aryon in [[1 ABY/Legends|1 ABY]] *Star Wars: A New Hope novelization *Galaxy Guide 7: Mos Eisley *Secrets of Tatooine *Star Wars Galaxies: An Empire Divided Quick Reference Guide *Star Wars Galaxies: The Total Experience: Prima Official Game Guide *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Females Category:Governors of the Galactic Empire Category:Humans Category:Tatooinians