30835
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Waywa_Fybot
Waywa Fybot
9068

|birth= |death=3 BBY, Oseon 5792Lando Calrissian and the Flamewind of Oseon |species=Quor'savThe Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia |gender=Male |pronouns=He/him |height=2.5 meters |mass= |hair=Bright yellow feathers |feathers= |eyes= |skin= |cyber= |families=new |parents=new |partners=new |siblings=new |children=new |affiliation=Galactic Empire |masters= |apprentices= }} Waywa Fybot was a male Quor'sav who served the Galactic Empire as an undercover narcotics agent in the Oseon system during the Imperial Period. A native of the Quor'sav homeworld of Uaua, Fybot originally trained as a gourmet chef before being forcibly conscripted into Imperial service. Fybot ultimately entered the employ of Sorcerer of Tund Rokur Gepta, under the guise of wealthy Oseon industrialist Bohhuah Mutdah, who promised Fybot freedom from the Empire in exchange for helping him entrap offworld gambler and smuggler Lando Calrissian. However, when Fybot delivered Calrissian to Gepta on Oseon 5792, the Sorcerer rewarded Fybot only with a quick death. A male of the avian Quor'sav, Waywa Fybot grew up on the planet Uaua, experiencing what he remembered as an idyllic upbringing in a small town. Fybot dreamed of becoming a gourmet chef in his younger years, and was studying at culinary school when he was forcibly conscripted into service under the Galactic Empire. Fybot was taken offworld and trained in law enforcement, but continued to send money to his parents on Uaua for years after his departure. Fybot found his new line of work as an undercover narcotics agent, operating in the Centrality's Oseon system amidst some of the galaxy's wealthiest beings. It was in Mutdah's employ that Fybot found himself embroiled in a scheme to entrap Lando Calrissian, a gambler and smuggler whom Mutdah appeared to have a personal grudge against. For his part, Mutdah promised Fybot freedom from his involuntary servitude to the Empire, an offer Fybot jumped at as he dearly wished to return home and resume his culinary studies. Mutdah had blackmailed Lob Doluff, Administrator Senior of the Oseon system, into luring Calrissian to the Oseon for a high-stakes sabacc game&mdash;while there Calrissian was arrested on a weapons charge that carried with it a death sentence. Doluff offered Calrissian a commuted sentence in exchange for catching Mutdah in a drug sting, aware that sending Calrissian into Mutdah's clutches would likely mean death. However, having grown to like the man, Doluff ordered Fybot and police officer Bassi Vobah to accompany him to Mutdah's estate on Oseon 5792, unaware of Fybot's true allegiance and hoping that their presence would give Calrissian a fighting chance. Fybot and Vobah joined Calrissian and Calrissian's droid Vuffi Raa on what was to be an uncommonly hazardous journey to Oseon 5792&mdash;although a short trip by interstellar standards, the mission was taking place during Flamewind, an annual storm of radiation that drew crowds of tourists to the Oseon. During the trip, the Falcon was hit with a strong burst of radiation that caused Fybot to hallucinate that he was home on Uaua, and was attacked by Renatasian militants in a battle that broke both of Fybot's legs. Calrissian splinted Fybot's legs using tinklewood from fishing rods in his cargo hold, and the group proceeded onward to Oseon 5792, Fybot spending his time learning how to play sabacc from Vuffi Raa and recovering with the help of an on-board bone-knitter unit. However, the continued dogged pursuit of the Renatasians gave Fybot pause, as he believed Calrissian had perhaps become a liability. Taking matters into his own hands, Fybot attempted to kill Calrissian by sabotaging his environment suit while Calrissian made external repairs to the ship&mdash;Calrissian survived, and Fybot's injuries allowed him to escape suspicion. Fybot was recovered by the time the Falcon reached Mutdah's home, only revealing his true colors when the time came to catch Mutdah in the sting, doing so by suddenly blowing Vobah's head off with a blaster. With Fybot part of the deal completed and Calrissian having been delivered into Mutdah's hands, Mutdah&mdash;in secret, the Sorcerer of Tund Rokur Gepta, who had killed Mutdah and taken his form&mdash;held up his end of the bargain. He had promised to free Fybot from Imperial service&mdash;he did so by shooting the Quor'sav to death. At two and a half meters tall, with bright yellow feathers, an orange beak and scaly, three-toed feet, Waywa Fybot cut a figure that was imposing to many Humans, but spoke with a high-pitched voice that sounded surprisingly effeminate and incongruous with his appearance. Fybot was proud of his species and fondly remembered his childhood on Uaua, away from the bird jokes he would hear from other species. Although he had an arsenal of rejoinders for mammals taking cracks at his appearance, he sometimes became violently angry at beings who mocked or insulted his species, but had enough self control to maintain poise when needed. Fybot was something of a careerist&mdash;although his servitude to the Empire was quite involuntary and he was unhappy in his job, he saw his work as a potential means to promotion and higher pay, which kept him working hard at his craft. Still, his true passion was cooking, an art that his fellow Quor'sav saw him as having no small talent in, and in his later years he became quite desperate to return home and resume his old pursuit. Fybot wielded an almost imperceptible Service Special energy projector weapon on his person, which he noted to his relief didn't need to be physically handled to be used, as the Quor'sav did not have nimble fingers. Waywa Fybot appeared in Lando Calrissian and the Flamewind of Oseon, written by L. Neil Smith and released in 1983. Smith directly modeled his portrayal of Fybot, a large avian character, after Big Bird from the children's TV show Sesame Street. *Lando Calrissian and the Flamewind of Oseon *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia *The Essential Reader's Companion Category:Individuals with he/him pronouns Category:Males Category:Personnel of the Galactic Empire Category:Police Category:Quor'sav