30828
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Bassi_Vobah
Bassi Vobah
6651

Bassi Vobah was a Human female police officer who served in the Oseon system during the Galactic Civil War. A native of the ultra-wealthy Oseon who came from more modest means, Vobah pursued a career in law enforcement as a means to support her family, although found herself frequently unfulfilled in the job. In 3 BBY, Vobah was assigned to back up gambler Lando Calrissian in a drug sting targeting wealthy industrialist Bohhuah Mutdah, only to be killed when partner Waywa Fybot revealed he was in Mutdah's employ. A native of the wealthy Oseon system of the Centrality, Bassi Vobah was the daughter of merchants who had immigrated to the system and there struggled to find financial success. Vobah was forced to support both herself and her parents through a career in law enforcement, joining the local police on Oseon 6845 and eventually serving directly under Administrator Senior Lob Doluff. Vobah found little joy in her work, and continued a life of drudgery until 3 BBY, when she was wrapped up in an intrigue surrounding a gambler named Lando Calrissian. Her employer, Doluff, had come under blackmail by ultra-rich industrialist Bohhuah Mutdah, who had ordered him to deliver Calrissian&mdash;with whom he apparently held some personal grudge&mdash;to his estate on Oseon 5792. Doluff enticed Calrissian to the Oseon with an invitation to a high-stakes sabacc. Vobah participated in the sabacc games as well, playing unimpressively but keeping a close eye on Calrissian throughout. However, events were soon set in motion by forces outside their control&mdash;Calrissian was called away from a game by a call that his ship was on fire, and fell under attack by a Renatasian partisan who was after his droid, Vuffi Raa. Calrissian was forced to kill the man with a hidden stingbeam weapon, running afoul of the Oseon's strict personal weapons ban. Vobah arrested Calrissian herself, bitterly consigning her to working during Flamewind, a massive radiation storm in the Oseon system that served as a major tourist attraction. However, in the meantime Doluff had come to personally like Calrissian, and wanting to give the man a chance, instead assigned Vobah and undercover narcotics agent Waywa Fybot to travel with him to Mutdah's estate to help Calrissian arrest Mutdah in a drug sting. The trip to Oseon 5792 turned out to be quite hazardous. First, Calrissian's Millennium Falcon had to traverse Flamewind itself, which struck the ship and forced Vobah to suffer serious hallucinations. They were also pursued by Renatasian compatriots of the man Calrissian had killed, forcing them into a battle amidst the Oseon asteroid belt. In addition, Vobah was forced to save Calrissian's life when an unknown suspect sabotaged Calrissian's enviro-suit before the gambler wore it for ship repairs&mdash;Vobah pulled Calrissian back into the safety of the ship. Despite the dangers, the Millennium Falcon reached Mutdah's estate, allowing Calrissian, Vobah and Fybot to attempt the sting operation. But as Vobah drew her pistol to arrest Mutdah, Fybot&mdash;secretly in Mutdah's employ&mdash;blew her head off before she had a chance to realize she had been betrayed. A small-town girl of modest means, Bassi Vobah held a strong resentment for the super-wealthy that she spent her life around in the Oseon system, and whom&mdash;as a member of the police force&mdash;she was compelled to serve. Law enforcement was not a passion for Vobah, but rather a way to support herself and her family, and a habit that she had fallen into that failed to provide her much comfort. She did feel strong satisfaction on the occasions where her job allowed her to mete out punishment to those she saw as "evil-doers," although those opportunities were few and far between. Her one reprieve every year was Flamewind, a time of festival where she could decompress from her job and interact with beings of all species and backgrounds&mdash;part of the reason she detested Lando Calrissian was his arrest forced her to miss Flamewind entirely, along with resenting him for not doing any honest work. A relatively young woman by 3 BBY, Vobah had blonde hair and was regarded by Calrissian as relatively attractive. Bassi Vobah appeared in Lando Calrissian and the Flamewind of Oseon, written by L. Neil Smith and released in 1983. *Lando Calrissian and the Flamewind of Oseon Category:Centrans Category:Females Category:Individuals with she/her pronouns Category:Police