31184
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Mace_Towani
Mace Towani
20049

|death=3 ABY (38), Endor establishes that Caravan of Courage: An Ewok Adventure and Ewoks: The Battle for Endor take place three years after , which corresponds to 3 ABY according to The New Essential Chronology. Mace Towani's death on Endor must also therefore take place in 3 ABY. |species=Human |gender=Male |pronouns=new |height= |mass= |hair=Blond |feathers= |eyes=Blue |skin=LightCaravan of Courage: An Ewok Adventure |cyber= |families=Towani family |parents=*Catarine Towani *Jeremitt Towani |partners=new |siblings=Cindel Towani |children=new |affiliation= |masters= |apprentices= }} Mace Towani was a Human male who was the son of Catarine Towani and Jeremitt Towani and brother to his sister, Cindel Towani during the time of the Galactic Civil War. In 3 ABY the Towani family's starcruiser crash-landed on the forest moon of Endor. Soon after, her parents, Jeremitt and Catarine were abducted by the native Gorax, leaving Cindel and her teenage brother Mace to fend for themselves. The two children were found by the Ewok Deej Warrick and taken to live with his family in their village. After learning that Jeremitt and Catarine were being held in the Gorax's lair in the Desert of Salma, the Towani children enlisted the help of the Ewoks and set off to rescue their parents. After a long journey, the group reached and defeated the Gorax and the Towani family were reunited. The Towanis remained with the Ewoks while Jeremitt worked to repair their ship, however, the Ewok village was attacked by a group of Sanyassan Marauders led by King Terak and the Dathomiri Nightsister Charal. Jeremitt, Catarine, and Mace were all killed defending the Ewok village. The Human Male Mace Towani was born in 11 BBY, the oldest child of Jeremitt and Catherine Towani. 9 years later, his younger sister Cindel Towani was born. The two came from a place which had no "furry creatures" according to Cindel.Caravan of Courage: An Ewok Adventure In 3 ABYStar Wars: Behind the Magic, while traveling through the Moddell sector on their way home, Towani's family starcruiser crash-landed on the moon EndorThe Essential Guide to Characters. Though all members of the family survived the crash, they found themselves stranded on the forest moon. Jeremitt and Catarine were concerned for their children's well-being in the unfamiliar forest and forbade them from leaving the ship and the protection it provided. One day, when Jeremitt and Catarine left to search for a transmitter, the Towani siblings left the ship and went to explore the forest. They returned to find no sign of their parents, unaware that Jeremitt and Catarine had been captured by the giant Gorax creature. The two children were forced to forage for their own food but, with their parents' life monitor signals indicating that they were still alive, they stayed with the crashed ship and waited for their parents to return. Some time later the local Ewok Deej Warrick and his sons Weechee and Willy came to investigate the crash site. The Ewoks found Cindel hiding inside the ship but Mace, fearing that they may have been responsible for his parents' disappearance, attacked the Ewoks, threatening them with a blaster. He was soon overpowered by the Ewoks, and they led both children back to their village, where it became clear that they intended no harm. Not long after arriving at the village, exposure to the strange environment started to take its toll, and Cindel complained that she felt unwell. Mace assumed she was merely hungry, but it became clear that it was something more serious when she lost consciousness. Fortunately for her, the Ewoks were aware of a fluid secreted by a tree in the forest which they had used as medicine for generations. The small amount they had available was enough to revive Cindel, but she was still in pain and suffering from a fever. At the request of the Ewoks, Mace joined two of the Ewoks to find more medicine to heal Cindel. Deep in the forest, the Ewoks found the tree containing the medicine and began to sap it's medicinal liquid from it. At the same time, Mace became intrigued by the fur-tipped tongue of a temptor hidden inside of a tree and was attacked when he got near it, with his right hand being grappled by the mouth of the temptor. After calling for help, the group of Ewoks freed Mace from it's grasp, the temptor returning to the inside of the tree. The group returned to Cindel, giving her most of the medicine they recovered, healing her fever. The Ewoks also gave Mace some of the medicine to heal his hand. While healing, Cindel began to try and teach Wicket basic, something Mace disagreed with, calling Ewoks "walking hairbrushes" and assuring Cindel that the two would not be on the forest moon for long. While the Ewoks slept, Mace woke up his sister, took his blaster, and left the village, attempting to return to the family's starcruiser and to find their parents. On the journey, the two stopped and expressed their wish to return to their parents, hoping the two were still alive. While stopped, the two were attacked by a boar-wolf, causing the two to run away, finding safety inside a hollow tree. Though the creature appeared to leave, Mace decided that they should rest in the tree for the night and resume their journey in the morning. They awoke to find the boar-wolf still in the area, fighting Deej and his sons, who had come in search of the children. The Ewoks were eventually able to kill the boar-wolf, but Mace discovered his father's life monitor on the creature. It became clear that the children would have to locate the boar-wolf's master if they were to be reunited with their parents. Back at the village, Mace attempted to find out from the Ewoks where the boar-wolf had come from. The Ewoks took the children to see the village shaman, Logray. Logray used a crystal image spinner to show them a vision of their parents being held by the Gorax in a forbidden land from which no Ewok had ever returned. Though the Ewoks were aware of the dangers that awaited them, Deej and his sons soon agreed to Mace's request to help him and Cindel find their parents. The next day, as the whole village got together to help them load supplies for the long journey ahead, the Towani siblings and the others were called to Logray for a ceremony in which he bestowed upon them the totems of legendary Ewok warriors. During the ceremony, Mace received the Magic rock. Mace, not believing the rock could help the group on their journey, dropped it on the ground, the rock soon afterwards being picked up by Wicket. The caravan soon set off with the older Ewoks traveling on horseback and Cindel riding with Wicket in a large basket mounted on the back of a horse—Mace opted to walk rather than ride with the children. Not long into their journey they encountered the Ewok woodsman, Chukha-Trok, when a tree he cut down narrowly missed Cindel as it fell to the ground. Chukha-Trok was gifted the ivory tooth by Wicket as offering to join the caravan, a decision that upset Mace. In response, Mace challenged Chukha-Trok to an axe throwing competition. The competition begun with Mace throwing his axe into a nearby tree, which Chukha-Trok responded to by throwing his axe into the handle of Mace's axe. Defeated and amazed, Mace changed his tone, offering Chukha-Trok the ivory tooth to join the caravan, which Chukha-Trok accepted. They next encountered the Ewok priestess, Kaink, who agreed to join them only if they could pass a magical test. Mace stepped forward to take the test but, upon touching the crystal she presented to him, he failed the test when it turned into a lizard. Kaink was reluctant to help until Cindel picked up the lizard, causing it to turn into a mouse, and passed the test. Kaink agreed to join the group and, the caravan complete, they resumed their long journey. The group later stopped for a rest near a river. As Wicket and Cindel played, Mace walked down to the river bank but, upon touching the water, was pulled into it and was unable to get out. Cindel alerted the Ewoks, but every attempt they made to throw something to Mace resulted in it disappearing as soon as it touched the water. Eventually, Cindel remembered a magic walking stick that Logray had given to Wicket, and the young Ewok used it to pull Mace to safety. The group was just about to resume their journey after one stop when, after Mace loaded Cindel into the basket, a sudden noise startled her horse, causing it to flee. Chukha-Trok was quick to act, mounting his horse and pursuing Towani into the forest. He eventually managed to catch up with her and, after bringing her horse under control, they returned to the group. Cindel discovered the power of the Candle of Pure Light when, after stopping for the night, they encountered a swarm of Wisties. Wicket woke Cindel, who brought the Candle of Pure Light outside and, drawn to the light, all but one of the Wisties used it to find their way home—Mace decided to take the last Wistie, Izrina, with him. : The long journey was starting to take its toll, and the group was running low on food when they finally reached the Desert of Salma, on the other side of which lay the Forbidden Fortress of the Gorax. Mace did not believe their was an entrance into the fortress, but learned there was one through the use of his magic rock. Defeated, Mace admitted that he has actually thrown away the rock given to him. Luckily, Wicket had kept it this entire time, allowing the rock, which contained an arrowhead inside it, to find a path inside past a giant rock. Using his blaster, Mace destroyed the rock, allowing the group inside. After finding an entrance to a tunnel under the mountain fortress, the group headed inside, but Deej refused to let the youngest members of the group go any further, believing that it was too dangerous. On the way to the Gorax lair, the group was attacked by a Rearing spider attempting to cross a giant spider web over a ravine, but was saved by Kaink, who hypnotized the spider with her staff. Meanwhile, the others had located Jeremitt and Catarine, trapped in a cage suspended from the roof of a cave. Weechee accidentally knocks the ax over, which garners the Gorax's attention, and it comes after him. He runs to the rest of the group, who again run and hide. Mace wonders how they will reach their parents, and Chukha-Trok suggests they use the Gorax's ax as a lever. Mace stands on one end, at which point Jeremitt and Catarine notice him. Chukha-Trok and Deej jump off a ledge onto the other end of the lever, which sends Mace flying up into the air, where he grabs hold of the cage containing his parents. Mace throws down a rope, and introduces Chukha-Trok as "a friend" as he climbs up. Mace climbs down first, but as soon as he reaches the bottom, the Gorax notices their activity. Weechee distracts it by hiding under a basket and moving across the floor. The Gorax smashes the basket, but finds nothing underneath. Weechee runs out from behind a corner, enraging the Gorax. Meanwhile, everyone continues climbing down from the cage, which is beginning to break. Weechee runs back to warn them, with the Gorax on his trail. The cage breaks, and Chukha-Trok falls into the hands of Jeremitt. They run out of the Gorax's lair, but Chukha-Trok stays behind and repeatedly attacks the Gorax's foot with his ax. As Mace is yelling for him to come on, Izrina lights up in his pocket. Mace unleashes Izrina on the Gorax, which disorients it while Chukha-Trok continues his attacks. In a rage, the Gorax strikes the walls of his fortress, which causes rocks to crumble and fall on Chukha-Trok. Mace runs to him, but realizes that Chukha-Trok is dying. Before he dies, Chukha-Trok gives Mace his ax. The Gorax chases the survivors down the giant steps, but they use a pulled-tight rope to trip him. Kaink then uses her magic wand to cause a stalactite to fall on his head. Catarine then uses Mace's blaster to shoot the Gorax in the chest, which causes him to fall off the ledge into the pit. Mace shows Deej Chukha-Trok's ax, and explains his sacrifice to them. Cindel, Wicket and Widdle appear on the other side of the chasm. But at that moment, the Gorax emerges from the pit and moves toward them. Mace throws Chukha-Trok's ax into the Gorax's back, which causes him to fall back into the pit. The group then swing across the chasm using a remaining part of the spider web as rope. Once they are safely on the other side, the family embraces, happy to be back together and out of danger. They then head for home, with Mace suggesting that Izrina will help guide the way. The group returns to the Ewok Village where they celebrate their victory Later, when Jeremitt's repairs were nearing completion, a group of the Sanyassan Marauders attacked the Ewok village, killing many. Mace was killed by an explosion while hiding in a hut, with Jeremitt and Catarine also dying. This left Cindel alone with the Ewoks, captured by the Sanyassans.Ewoks: The Battle for Endor Cindel eventually escapes the Sanyassans and joins with Wicket, later finding the hermit Noa Briqualon and his partner Teek. Cindel and Noa eventually manages to escape Endor, achieving Mace's goal he wanted for himself and his family. In the two Ewok films, Caravan of Courage: An Ewok Adventure and Ewoks: The Battle for Endor, Mace Towani was portrayed by Eric Walker. The name "Mace" actually dates back to the earliest incarnation of Star Wars, a 13-page treatment written by George Lucas in 1973 called Journal of the Whills, Part I.The Making of Star Wars: The Definitive Story Behind the Original Film *Caravan of Courage: An Ewok Adventure *The Ewok Adventure book-and-record *The Ewoks and the Lost Children *Ewoks: The Battle for Endor *Star Wars: Episode VI Return of the Jedi junior novelization *George Lucas: The Creative Impulse *The Essential Guide to Characters *Star Wars Encyclopedia *A Guide to the Star Wars Universe, Third Edition, Revised and Expanded *Star Wars: The Ultimate Visual Guide *Star Wars: The Ultimate Visual Guide: Special Edition *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia *Star Wars: The Ultimate Visual Guide: Updated and Expanded Category:Endorians Category:Humans Category:Males