31258
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Book_of_Imperial_Shuttle_Plans:_Cygnus_Spaceworks
Book of Imperial Shuttle Plans: Cygnus Spaceworks
9584

The Book of Imperial Shuttle Plans: Cygnus Spaceworks is fan art produced under the Lawrence Miller Design label, apparently in 1984. Consisting of blueprints for what later official works would identify as the Lambda-class T-4a shuttle, it has sometimes been mistaken for a Lucasfilm-authorized product. Certain elements described in the Star Wars Legends continuity, as well as the canonical Cygnus Spaceworks, derive from these blueprints. The blueprints also contain a list of star systems, many of which share names with real stars visible from Earth or locations from other science fiction franchises, such as Star Trek and Doctor Who. The "book" consists of an envelope with three blueprint sheets for an "Imperial Shuttle" that is essentially the Lambda-class T-4a shuttle from Return of the Jedi. It apparently uses the name of Cygnus Spaceworks almost a decade before any official source,Rebellion Era Campaign Guide confirms the connection between the canonical Cygnus Spaceworks and this fan publication. and it has been discussed alongside official publications by at least one influential fan site, the Star Wars Technical Commentaries. It is not clear how the name of Cygnus Spaceworks could have found its way into official material from here, but it appears that Lora Johnson, one of the first official authors to reference Cygnus Spaceworks, worked with Miller on at least one project (a Star Trek fan production entitled the U.S.S. Enterprise Officer's Manual - Revised). Beyond the actual shuttle plan (which closely resembles the published set plan in 1983's The Art of Star Wars Episode VI: Return of the Jedi), the only element which bears any direct connection with canon is the name "General A.F. Motti". While no such character is in official sources, a character in A New Hope is Admiral Conan Antonio Motti. The shuttle is said to be used in the Cygnus Star Empire, rather than the Galactic Empire. Similarly, the shuttle is described as meeting construction codes in a list of star systems which includes real stars visible from Earth and fictional locations from other science fiction series such as Doctor Who and the original Star Trek series. If taken literally, this list implies that the shuttle satisfies the safety standards of the Daleks, the Romulans, and a society based on Chicago gangsters of the 1920s. Category:Star Wars culture