31263
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Jeremitt_Towani
Jeremitt Towani
7994

Jeremitt Towani was a Human male who was the husband of Catarine Towani, and the father of Cindel and Mace Towani. Jeremitt Towani was a Human male who lived during the decades of the Galactic Empire and the early years of the Galactic Civil War, during which his family was of unknown political affiliation. He married a woman named Catarine and they two had children: a boy named Mace in 11 BBY and a girl named Cindel in 2 BBY. Jeremitt Towani and his family were returning homeThe Essential Guide to Characters in their star cruiser in 3 ABY,Star Wars: Behind the Magic and their course took them through the Moddell sector.Star Wars: Complete Locations Their ship had to make a crash-landing on the Forest Moon of Endor following a system failure. With the starship damaged and unable to take off, he and Catarine went out looking for help and to try to find civilization, leaving their children with the ship, telling them not to leave the ship while they were gone as it was safe. As curiosity overcame the children, Mace disobeyed and took his sister to explore the nearby woods. Upon return, they could find no trace of their children. Suddenly, the Gorax appeared and kidnapped both Jeremitt and Catarine. Little did they know that Cindel was hiding in the ship. Jeremitt and Catarine were taken by the Gorax and put in a crude wooden bird cage.The Ewoks and the Lost Children Their life monitors were attached at the Gorax's boar-wolf. thumb|270x270px|The [[Towani family|Towani and Warrick families.]] Not long afterward, a tribe of nearby Ewoks, while on a search for their own children, discovered the crashed Towani star cruiser (which they assumed was deserted). After a look inside, they discovered Cindel, hiding in a cabinet. Soon Mace returned from a trek in the forest, assuming the Ewoks meant harm toward he and his sister. After he realized they meant no harm, he and he sister joined the Ewoks in an attempt to rescue the parents from the clutches of the Gorax. Together, they depart the village, and cross the Endor moon, until they finally reach the Gorax, who they fight and eventually defeat. Mace freed his parents and everyone returned to the village and celebrated. Jeremitt had hoped that Deej and Logray could help him repair the star cruiser's transmitter. However, he soon learned that the Ewoks had no knowledge of the star cruiser's technology. So he began work on repairing the star cruiser by himself in a nearby meadow.Ewoks: The Battle for Endor book-and-record After several months, the star cruiser was repaired enough to allow the family to leave the moon. However, as Jeremitt was finishing up repairs, a group of Sanyassan Marauders attacked the village, killing many and capturing the rest. Jeremitt tried to escape with Cindel, but was shot in the back by one of the Marauders. Due to his wounds, Jeremitt told Cindel to get away while he held off the Maruaders with his pistol. He was mortally wounded during this action. Jeremitt was portrayed by Guy Boyd in Caravan of Courage, and by Paul Gleason in The Battle for Endor. *Caravan of Courage: An Ewok Adventure *The Ewoks and the Lost Children *The Ewok Adventure book-and-record *The Ring, the Witch, and the Crystal: An Ewok Adventure *Ewoks: The Battle for Endor *Ewoks: The Battle for Endor book-and-record *Star Wars: Episode VI Return of the Jedi junior novelization *George Lucas: The Creative Impulse *The Essential Guide to Characters *Star Wars Encyclopedia *A Guide to the Star Wars Universe, Third Edition, Revised and Expanded *Star Wars: The Ultimate Visual Guide *Star Wars: The Ultimate Visual Guide: Special Edition *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia *Star Wars: The Ultimate Visual Guide: Updated and Expanded Category:Endorians Category:Humans Category:Males