31344
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Flow-walking
Flow-walking
5715

Flow-walking was a rare Force power used by the Aing-Tii monks. It was taught to Jacen Solo by the Aing-Tii, allowing him to view the past and the future. When one used flow-walking, they could alter the past, and thereby change the course of the future. This power was used with great caution but had very few limitations on it. The Aing-Tii used flow-walking as a method of touching the Force by flowing along its currents and reading its intentions. When using this method, it was important to remain attached and anchored in the real world, or else risk losing oneself to the flow. Users often left a blur when traveling through time. In 35 ABY, Jacen Solo was able to see with his flow-walking what happened when the ship Tachyon Flier crashed, witnessing Raynar Thul as he dragged Lomi Plo and Welk out of the fire. Upon returning to the present and knowing that his mother Leia Organa Solo would later appear at the crash site, Jacen used the flow-walk technique again to leave an imprint of himself for the future, thus connecting Leia to that place and time through the Force. In 40 ABY, Solo flow-walked back to the raid on the Jedi Temple to find out what persuaded his grandfather Anakin Skywalker to embrace the ways of the Sith. He also flow-walked into the middle of two of the Jedi High Council's meetings. Jacen Solo, at this time self-proclaimed Darth Caedus, also flow-walked with Tahiri Veila multiple times in order to bring her over to his side. He went back in time to allow her to see Anakin Solo and the worldship Baanu Rass where Anakin had died. This was enough to get her to do what he wanted and turn to the dark side with him. He also tricked her into believing that flow-walking could allow a person to go back in time and change their past, however this was a lie and is not an actual ability that can be done by flow-walking. Ben Skywalker later learned flow-walking while studying with the Aing-Tii. He used it once to flow-walk to when Jacen had learned the technique and found himself so overwhelmed that he returned to the present and declared he would never flow-walk again. Both Ben and Luke Skywalker investigated whether Darth Caedus possibly flow-walked into the future as a means of infecting Jedi with Force psychosis. Neither, however, came to any solid conclusion regarding the matter, and the source was later discovered to be the malevolent entity Abeloth. In the novel Fate of the Jedi: Omen, Jysella Horn experiences remarkably advanced precognition while fighting. Cilghal recognizes the sensations in the Force as similar to that of flow-walking and assumes it to be flow-walking, having no experience with any other Aing-Tii time-manipulation techniques. *Dark Nest I: The Joiner King *Dark Nest III: The Swarm War *Legacy of the Force: Bloodlines *Legacy of the Force: Inferno *Legacy of the Force: Fury *Legacy of the Force: Revelation *Legacy of the Force: Invincible *Fate of the Jedi: Omen *Fate of the Jedi: Backlash *Fate of the Jedi: Allies *Fate of the Jedi: Apocalypse *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia *Jedi Academy Training Manual *The Jedi Path: A Manual for Students of the Force Category:Sense powers Category:Time