31417
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Qella
Qella
3412

The Qella were a quadruped species from the planet Brath Qella. Genetic descendants of the Ahra Naffi, the Qella discovered that their homeworld was on a collision course with one of the orbiting moons. In preparation for what they knew to be a coming ice age, the Qella built a vessel containing their history, genetic data, and instructions for how to return to Brath Qella and restart their species when the time was right. The vessel, which came to be known as the Teljkon Vagabond, departed Brath Qella around 120 BBY and became a myth among spacers. The moon's impact came shortly thereafter, killing the remaining Qella. In 16 ABY, the Vagabond returned to Brath Qella and began the process of restarting Qella life. The process was aided by Jedi Master Luke Skywalker, who hid the Vagabond from prying eyes, giving the species and their world a chance at a new beginning. Doctor Joto Eckels believed it was possible that the Qella could return anywhere from a hundred years or a thousand years later. The Qella were tall, lanky quadrupeds who had stubby three-fingered hands; oval, smooth-skinned bodies not suited for cold climates and slender double-jointed limbs. The Qella were much like the Yuuzhan Vong in that their technology was grown from all the lifeforms that had existed on Brath Qella. While they didn't have the mass production capabilities as the Yuuzhan Vong had, they were able to make a much more powerful ship, the Teljkon Vagabond. The major difference seems to be that the Qella were a peaceful species, only seeking to prolong their own species lives with the construction of the Vagabond, and not destruction, as the Vagabond only attacked what it perceived as threats to its mission. *Before the Storm *Before the Storm abridged audiobook *Shield of Lies *Shield of Lies abridged audiobook *Tyrant's Test *Tyrant's Test abridged audiobook *Specter of the Past *Specter of the Past abridged audiobook *The New Jedi Order: Agents of Chaos I: Hero's Trial *The New Jedi Order: Agents of Chaos I: Hero's Trial abridged audiobook *Cracken's Threat Dossier *C-3PO: Tales of the Golden Droid *The New Essential Chronology Category:Outer Rim Territories sentient species