31453
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/A-Cee
A-Cee
7927

A-Cee was a protocol droid belonging to Candice Ondi before her death at the G-Tap on Sulon. He was chrome plated, had one of his photoreceptors replaced with a zoom lens, was equipped to record a thousand hours of audio and video, but could only speak "dozens" of languages. A cable from his lower-right side compartment allowed him to connect with a computer input panel and reproduce his recordings. Because of the confidential information he was carrying, he was programmed to explode if capture or interference by the Galactic Empire seemed imminent. A-Cee was the companion of Captain Candice Ondi in her capacity as information officer for the Alliance. Expecting an Imperial assault at the G-Tap of Sulon, he was with her, looking for pickup shots. The knowledge of his recording capacity made others, like Morgan Katarn, nervous in his presence.Dark Forces: Soldier for the Empire During the fight, the Rebels continuously were falling back and Morgan ordered Candice and other survivors to seek safety in the caves, but not before asking from her the services of the droid. Morgan found some time to upload the recording from his electrobinoculars documenting the assault against the Danga estate and his, and narrate the events leading up to the Imperial assault. He then ordered the droid to find its way to the spaceport and the Alliance leaders, and he covered its retreat. A-Cee witnessed the death of Candice as she was reporting, and he ran to her; she died cradled at the droid's arms. After the Imperial assault, A-Cee reached Barons Hed on a truck vehicle, hidden under some tarp; after passing through a checkpoint manned by Stormtroopers, and then he recorded the severed heads of the Rebels captured earlier. A-Cee left Sulon and came in to the possession of Rebel Agent Jan Ors who eventually had an errand on board the Star of Empire. When Kyle Katarn first visited Jan Ors' room onboard the Star of Empire&mdash;clad in an Imperial officer's uniform&mdash;A-Cee's photoreceptors picked up the Human and his uniform perceived a class three threat and initiated his self-destruct sequence. With seconds remaining before the droid exploded, Ors overrode the subroutine&mdash;"Override code alpha, bravo, zeta, one-niner-six." Ors realised that Officer Katarn was the son of recently deceased Morgan Katarn, who was secretly a local Rebel leader, and used A-Cee's footage to prove to him the Empire's atrocities. A-Cee connected his torso cable to the room's input panel, and displayed the holo of Ondi's report; Kyle was convinced that his father was a Rebel fighting Imperial forces, who staged a Rebel "terrorist" assault. Kyle then demanded to see what happened to his father; Ors reluctantly gave permission to A-Cee to display the images of the beheaded Rebels, along with Morgan's head, that convinced Kyle about how the Empire actually operated. Seeing Kyle's pain, Ors ordered A-Cee to stop. However their presence and operations became known to the bounty hunter Slyder, and the Imperial Governor Dol Donar, who sent a force to arrest them. The next day Ors received a warning from Katarn, and took A-Cee with her heading to the hangar deck. As they exited the hatch, A-Cee checked his apertures and switched to record, when Slyder with Imperial soldiers attempted to stop them. A-Cee however was always at job and paused to record their pursuers. The seconds he needed to rip off a scene he took before running away, was enough for Slyder to aim. A-Cee was hit on the back, hitting a subprocessor, forcing him to an emergency shutdown. thumb|left|200px|A-Cee prior to self-destructing While the Imperials hunted Ors to the hangar, and boarded yacht to pursue the Truly Sorry, the Governor considered that the droid had secrets in his memory and insisted to take the droid with them while they hunted the Rebels; a (much-abused) technician was on board and A-Cee's body was spread-eagled on a table. The technician connected its CPU, subprocessor and power supply to a panel, and flipped a switch. Regaining "consciounsness", A-Cee remembered what happened, as Donar, his son and the technician approached him. The Governor's son wore a Class B Imperial uniform and he once more initiated the self-destruct sequence. All aboard tried to deactivate him, but there was no much time; Slyder in his anger and desperation started shooting at everyone, and the others were killed in the explosion of four point two kilos of plitex nine. A-Cee's destruction took with him the yacht that was gaining on the Sorry, and thus allowed the Rebels to safely return to the New Hope. In the audio adaptation of Dark Forces: Soldier for the Empire, A-Cee is voiced by Tim Russell. A-Cee's role in the Battle of the G-Tap is a bit different between the novel and the drama. In the novel he stays with Candice until her death, and then somehow hides in a truck and reaches the spaceport; in the drama Morgan Katarn, in the midst of the battle, asks from Candice to borrow him while she retreats, he then narrates the prelude of the Battle. He then orders the droid to leave, and covers his retreat to the spaceport. *Dark Forces: Soldier for the Empire *Dark Forces: Soldier for the Empire audio drama *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Cybot Galactica model protocol droids Category:Droids of the Alliance to Restore the Republic