31522
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Ganjuko
Ganjuko
4335

Ganjukos were large creatures from Fenn with beaks and thick coats of hair. They were known to stampede at a moment's notice. Their beaks were prized, as they could be crafted into expensive daggers, a sign of status among Bothan clan leaders. Ganjuko hatched from eggs. In the first 7 months of their lives the hatchings grew protected in a pouch on their mother's back, then they were abandoned to survive by themselves. The young had a high mortality rate and often fell prey to other predators; those who survived into adulthood become fierce predators close to the top of the food chain. The creatures had massive layers of fat covered in dark, thick fur in order to retain heat in frigid climates. Their hair varied from black to dark-brown, and their exposed parts varied from red to bright orange. Their skull plates and beaks were made of very hard cartilage and, other than protection, they were used for attacking. During fights, their eyes could be protected by retractable cartilage lids, preferring to use sound and smell over sight. They opened the armor plates of their prey, or dug, with their beaks. They were diel, active during both days and nights, taking small naps all around the rotation. They were capable of jumping and climbing. In fact, they were uncomfortable after few hours in above-freezing temperatures, becoming gradually weaker and slower. After more than week in "warm" environments, they fell into hibernation until temperature was restored. During her lifetime, a female could lay only 4 to 8 eggs in her lifetime. They had a lifespan of 110 years. In pre-Republic era, they were spread to other worlds in Dufilvian sector as well as worlds in Bothan sector such as Kothlis and Bothawui. The Ganjuko was a predator that thrived in the arctic regions of Bothawui. They were solitary and territorial; carving or digging a nest in the ice or snow, they controlled and fiercely protected an area of at least 200 square km. *Creatures of the Galaxy *Shadows of the Empire Planets Guide *The Essential Guide to Planets and Moons *Star Wars: Empire at War: Prima Official Game Guide *Star Wars: Empire at War: Forces of Corruption Expansion: Prima Official Game Guide *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Oviparous species Category:Creatures of Bothawui Category:Flightless creatures Category:Species of undefined sentience Category:Predatory creatures Category:Creatures of unspecified biology