31532
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Iriaz
Iriaz
4667

|diet=Herbivorous |language= }} Iriaz were docile creatures from the grassland planet Dantooine. While not normally aggressive, they could attack if provoked, charging with their horns. They were a prey of choice for local hunters given that they were a relatively common creature, particularly near the Jedi Enclave.Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic Iriaz were herbivores found on Dantooine. They lived in massive herds, grazing on grasses, berries, and shoots from the occasional low-slung tree that dotted the open prairies of the planet. They were rarely encountered alone, lone iriaz were usually sick, old, or injured, though the occasional rogue male could also be found. They were preyed upon by predators such as kath hounds and were capable of sprinting at tremendous speed for a short period of time, although this left them winded, so they reserved it only for fleeing or when males tried to thwart predators that got too close to the herd. Hunters often travelled to Dantooine for the sole purpose of hunting iriaz, which took a toll on their numbers. Iriaz pelts and horns fetched a high price on the market. In 3956 BBY, the crime lord Davik Kang of the Exchange had an iriaz head mounted in his estate's trophy room on Taris. Shortly after the destruction of Taris at the hands of the Sith Empire in the Jedi Civil War, a local of Dantooine by the name of Rickard Lusoff set out onto the plains with his hunting blaster to murder his business partner Calder Nettic. When he arrived moments too late to find that another man Handon Guld had killed Nettic first, he fired on Guld in frustration. In the investigation that ensued conducted by the Jedi Bolook and Revan, Lusoff lied that he had been out on the fields hunting iriaz. thumb|left|The cut iriaz model from Knights of the Old Republic. Iriaz were intended to appear in the video game Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic but were cut from the game. Dialogue from the "Murdered Settler" quest appears to suggest that they were supposed to be present. One of the two suspects, Rickard Lusoff, claims that he was out hunting iriaz. If the player chooses the dialogue option which has Revan declare that Lusoff is lying because there are no iriaz to be seen, the Jedi Bolook admonishes him to be more observant, insisting that there are iriaz all around them. This could either have been a mistake in the dialogue that was not corrected or intended as a red herring in the investigation. Some mods for both the PC and Xbox versions allow players to fight iriaz by retrieving their dormant game files. *Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic *Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic: Prima's Official Strategy Guide *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia *The Essential Atlas Category:Creatures of Dantooine Category:Grassland and plains creatures Category:Herbivorous creatures Category:Herd and pack creatures Category:Hunted creatures Category:Species of undefined sentience Category:Vertebrates