31605
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Storm_beast
Storm beast
4013

The storm beasts were large reptilian creatures twisted by the dark side of the Force, that lived on the world of Malachor V. They had several abilities, including being able to emit a wave of destructive sonic energy and enhanced strength. thumb|left|A storm beast on Malachor V Storm Beasts were hulking monstrosities that roamed the desolated surface of Malachor V. They were savage reptilian predators that generally stood around 2 metres tall, even though a larger variant known as greater storm beast also existed. They possessed vicious demeanours and abilities that had been augmented by the dark side of the force. They were also capable of emitting destructive sonic energy. They tended to be solitary except during mating seasons. Outside of that timeframe, banding more than one of them together usually resulted in them fighting until only one remained alive. thumb|right|A greater storm beast|195x195px Many historians believed that originally, they were natural creatures at the top of the food chain, until the Trayus Academy was constructed. The Sith used the dark side to turn the creatures into menacing beasts, who continued to be immersed in it well after the Sith left the planet, along with the other creatures of their ecosystem. Over time, the storm beasts eradicated competing predators, leaving themselves as the sole masters of their world. The storm beasts were possibly the only native species of Malachor V to survive after the Jedi Civil War, since they were the only species found living on the world's surface. During the First Jedi Purge, storm beasts were the only visible beings that lived on the surface of Malachor V aside from the inhabitants of the Trayus Academy. Following the second activation of the Mass Shadow Generator, which devastated the planet even further than it already was, many storm beasts died, although some lived on, able to sustainably live in what remained of Malachor's atmosphere. *Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic II: The Sith Lords *Star Wars: The Old Republic *Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic II: The Sith Lords: Prima Official Game Guide *Jedi Academy Training Manual Category:Carnivorous creatures Category:Creatures of the Chorlian sector Category:Force-sensitive creatures Category:Non-sentient species Category:Reptiles Category:Sithspawn