31745
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Polydroxol
Polydroxol
6136

The Polydroxol were a species of sentient, denantium-based shapeshifters that were native to the world of Sevetta. They resembled two hundred kilogram masses of mercury while in their liquid state. Their native environment was the toxic volcanic pools of their homeworld. Polydroxol usually had the power to mimic other kinds of species and speak their native language, though they could not mimic skin texture. Despite this, a Polydroxol could alter it's surface to match the texture and color of most metals and plasticsHiding in Plain Sight: Star Wars Shapeshifters, however this was only surface level and did not change the Polydroxol's properties. They could even reproduce lettering and complex patterns. Polydroxol found the humanoid form difficult to maintain and replicate, however had no trouble taking on simple geometric shapes. They could not alter their mass, but could separate their body into smaller segments, of which the Polydroxol could maintain control of and transmit sensory information through from a distance of up to 35-meters. This segmenting ability required the host to actively maintain a connection and command them. These segments could even feel pain and sustain injuries, which were transmitted onto the host until they either dropped the connection or the segment was incapacitated or killed, forcing them to lose contact. Polydroxols could not change their shape to anything thinner than 10-centimeters in width, although they could mold their "limbs" down to centimeter-width and even create weapons and blades.Shape-shifters Their unusual evolution resulted in them possessing a complex circulatory system which passed electroglobins throughout the body. This also had the effect of allowing the Polydroxol to survive without oxygen. Due to their metallic nature, superficial wounds could heal instantaneously, like the loss of a limb, or slugthrower wounds. However, while they could close their wounds and replace their limbs, they could not replace the electroglobins instantaneously, and would need an extended period of rest in order to regenerate them. It was quite possible for a Polydroxol to die of electroglobin loss but still be completely intact. According to Jedi biologist Bowspritz, in a section of The Jedi Path: A Manual for Students of the Force, Polydroxols were difficult to target with the forceThe Jedi Path: A Manual for Students of the Force (real-life book) due to their liquid-metal nature. An interesting societal development was that, during travels on their homeworld, these creatures would often journey forth in pairs. Prior to 990 BBY, Jedi Biologist Bowspritz encountered Polydroxols. He later wrote about them in The Jedi Path: A Manual for Students of the Force, and described them as among the most enigmatic species he had encountered in his research. Later, during the reign of the Galactic Empire, Trem DeSelvaine, a scientist working for the Karflo Corporation conducted a study on a captured Polydroxol. He nicknamed it "Polly", however was ordered to kill it by Administrator Renerdat using a toxin developed by another Karflo Corporation scientist, Doctor Sera. This toxin caused their electroplasma to vent to the surface. Ultimately, DeSelvaine was killed by Polly before he could administer the poison. At some point, the spacer Keeta lost an eye to a Polydroxol under the employ of Boss Trome. The Polydroxol were first introduced in "Treasure Hunt," an adventure written by Todd Quigley, illustrated by Tim Eldred, and included in Twin Stars of Kira, a 1993 supplement for West End Games' Star Wars: The Roleplaying Game. *The New Essential Guide to Characters *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia *The Jedi Path: A Manual for Students of the Force Category:Mineral-based sentient species Category:Outer Rim Territories sentient species Category:Shape-shifting sentient species