32078
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Rav_Bralor
Rav Bralor
4597

Rav Bralor was a Human female Mandalorian warrior who was active during the Clone Wars. thumb|left|Rav Bralor in full armor Rav Bralor was one of seventy-five Mandalorian Cuy'val Dar training sergeants for the Grand Army of the Republic's clone commandos, personally recruited by Jango Fett. After the completion of the duties of the Cuy'val Dar, she presumably returned to Mandalore. Midway through the Clone Wars she was asked by Sergeant Kal Skirata to maintain Kyrimorut, his future home and bastion of the Skirata clan, in the northern forests of Mandalore. Skirata returned to Mandalore 480 days after the First Battle of Geonosis with a very pregnant Etain Tur-Mukan after deciding that Mandalore was the safest place for Tur-Mukan, a Jedi General, to give birth in secret. Bralor had the home ready for them and helped them settle into their surroundings. thumb|Right|Rav Bralor. Bralor and her niece Parja were present for the birth of Venku Skirata and for the arrival of Fi Skirata after he suffered brain trauma at the Battle of Gaftikar. Bralor trained a full company of Republic commandos, including Vevut Squad and Yayax Squad. The Commandos of Yayax deserted the Grand Army of the Republic after Order 66 and came to Mandalore to live with Bralor and the Skirata clan. Later she was present when the body of Tur-Mukan was brought to Mandalore and prepared Tur-Mukan's body for cremation. Bralor was described by Etain Tur-Mukan as 'frighteningly fit' and was a competent soldier with a strong dislike of Kaminoans and little patience for dithering from commanding officers. She and Kal Skirata were close friends and comrades-in-arms long before their service as Cuy'val Dar and shared many similar attitudes towards the clones they trained, such as treating them like their own son's. Indeed, it was observed that the clones of Yayax Squad in particular acted like children eager to please their mother when in close proximity to her. Bralor's figurine bears a strong resemblance to illustrations of Vhonte Tervho. *Republic Commando: Hard Contact *Republic Commando: Triple Zero *Republic Commando: True Colors *Order 66: A Republic Commando Novel *Imperial Commando: 501st *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Clan Bralor Category:Cuy'val Dar Category:Females Category:Humans