32014
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Roget_Jiriss
Roget Jiriss
8428

Roget Jiriss was a Human female and one of the most successful smugglers in the early years of the New Republic. Brash and confident, Jiriss had an intense hatred of all pirates. She always delivered cargo on time when agreeing to a job, and her high delivery rate came with correspondingly high fees. During the Galactic Civil War, Jiriss's underworld contacts within several large crime syndicates proved an excellent source of information for the Rebel Alliance. By 10 ABY, the Galactic Empire had charged Jiriss with several smuggling-related criminal offenses. thumb|left|150px|Roget Jiriss, 10 ABY The Human female Roget Jiriss was born in 32 BBY. As a smuggler, she used her contacts deep within several large crime syndicates to garner a certain amount of personal freedom, even in Imperial space.Star Wars: Rebellion: Prima's Official Strategy Guide Jiriss thus served as an excellent source of information for the Rebel Alliance during the Galactic Civil War. Jiriss was later one of the galaxy's most successful smugglers in the early years of the New Republic, and her fees were priced to match her high delivery rate. Although Jiriss refused to deal directly with various syndicates, she would quickly accept cargo from a known black marketeer if the opportunity presented itself in order to hurriedly get out of a system. By 10 ABY, the Empire had charged Jiriss with illegal transportation of weapons and contraband goods, violations of customs ordinances, and assault on planetary police. She was categorized in Imperial records as criminal TracSheet Subject 66436335-UQFC-244869. Roget Jiriss was slender, with an athletic physique, and stood 1.7 meters tall. She had blue eyes; waist-length black hair, which she kept arranged in a complex pattern; and light skin. Jiriss was a smuggler with a sense of humor. She was a brash and cocky woman, though her Imperial TracSheet described her as having an exaggerated estimation of her personal skills. Jiriss never made two consecutive smuggling runs in the same system, but when she agreed to deliver a shipment, it always arrived on time. Jiriss had a consuming hatred of pirates of any kind and would often break away to "go hunting" when they were reported nearby. Jiriss's first name, "Roget," was a common Corellian female name. Among her mechanical abilities, Jiriss was adept at astrogation, starship transports, ship gunnery, and ship shields. She had technical prowess in blaster and space transport repair. Aside from her smuggling business proficiency, Jiriss also had knowledge in alien species, languages, and planetary systems. Jiriss's personal starship was a heavily armed and modified YT-1300 light freighter named the Frontier Hawk. Her personal equipment included a comlink and a blaster pistol. She commonly dressed in a blue jumpsuit with a white collar, which she wore unfastened about her neck, along with a utility belt and fingerless work gloves. Roget Jiriss was created for the 1994 West End Games sourcebook Galaxy Guide 11: Criminal Organizations, written by Rick D. Stuart. She serves as a character example of a criminal smuggler for use with Star Wars: The Roleplaying Game. Artist Mike Vilardi provided Galaxy Guide 11 illustration of Jiriss. Jiriss was later included in the 1998 PC game Star Wars: Rebellion as one of the playable characters available to the Rebel Alliance. In accordance with her smuggler contacts, the Jiriss character is used most effectively in gameplay in espionage missions and instigating uprisings on Imperial planets. The article Callsigns: Names of Corellia, published in the 2002 roleplaying magazine Star Wars Gamer 9, included "Roget" among a list of common Corellian first names. However, Jiriss is not specifically identified as being Corellian. *Star Wars: Rebellion *Galaxy Guide 11: Criminal Organizations *Star Wars: Rebellion: Prima's Official Strategy Guide *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Females Category:Humans Category:Individuals with she/her pronouns Category:Smugglers