32115
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Resolution_(Venator-class)
Resolution (Venator-class)
6835

The Resolution was a Venator-class Star Destroyer in service of the Republic Navy during the Clone Wars. In 20 BBY, the Resolution was dispatched to the planet Drongar to evacuate the Republic troops on the world. The Resolution was successful in its task, evacuating most of the Republic forces and staff, driving back the Separatist army, and securing a considerable amount of the precious bota plant. The Resolution was a Venator-class Star Destroyer that was active in the Republic Navy during the Clone Wars, a galaxy-wide conflict between the Confederacy of Independent Systems and the Galactic Republic. The ship was 1,137 meters long, 548 meters wide and 268 meters high. The Resolution was equipped with a hyperdrive and armed with eight DBY-827 heavy dual turbolaser turrets, two medium dual turbolaser cannons, fifty-two point-defense laser cannons, six tractor beam projectors and four heavy proton torpedo tubes. As a Venator-class Star Destroyer, the Resolution was manufactured by Kuat Drive Yards. In 20 BBY,The New Essential Chronology the ship was sent to the Outer Rim planet Drongar where Republic and Confederate forces fought against each other to gain control of the bota fields on the world. Bota was a native plant of Drongar with substantial medicinal qualities. However, when the bota mutated during that year and became useless, the Republic decided to pull out of Drongar, and the Resolution was tasked to escort the Republic forces on the planet back to the Core Worlds. After arriving over the planet, the Star Destroyer fought off the Confederate troops&mdash;who had started an offensive to secure most of the bota&mdash;and was able to evacuate most of the Republic clone trooper forces, along with the medical personnel stationed there. Also, the Republic saved two metric tons of non-mutated bota. Afterward, the Resolution, together with a Republic MedStar-class frigate that contained troops and personnel, jumped to hyperspace, with its destination being the Core Worlds. The Resolution appeared in MedStar II: Jedi Healer, the second novel of the MedStar Duology. Published in 2004, Jedi Healer was written by Michael Reaves and Steve Perry. *MedStar II: Jedi Healer *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Starships of the Galactic Republic Category:Venator-class Star Destroyers