32383
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/C%27borp
C'borp
9466

|height= |mass= |hair= |feathers= |eyes=BlackTales of the Jedi 5 |skin=OrangeTales of the Jedi 4 |cyber= |families= |parents= |partners= |siblings= |children= |affiliation=Finhead Stonebone's pirate gang |masters= |apprentices= }} C'borp was Finhead Stonebone's chief gunner aboard the pirate vessel Marauder Starjacker. In 3999 BBY, C'borp used the ship's laser turret to fire on an Ithullian ore hauler, which was transporting valuable ore that Stonebone wanted to siphon and was protected by a hired security detail provided by the powerful crime lord Bogga the Hutt. However, as the siphoning crew boarded the ore hauler, Bogga's flagship, the Enforcer One, arrived and captured the Marauder Starjacker and imprisoned its crew. C'borp and the other pirates were brought to the Hutt's estate on the moon of Vo Dasha, where Stonebone and his crew were offered exoneration for their pirating if they went to the planet Ambria to retrieve Adegan crystals for the Hutt. Stonebone agreed, and the group, joined by a team of Bogga's enforcers, successfully obtained the crystals on Ambria. However, as the two groups began fighting amongst themselves about who would get the reward, Jedi trainee Nomi Sunrider attacked the criminals and killed C'borp. thumb|right|250px|Dreebo fires on the pirate crew's ore siphoners as they latch on to the Ithullan ore hauler. In 4000 BBY, C'borp was the chief gunner on the Marauder Starjacker, a pirate vessel owned and operated by a man named Finhead Stonebone. In 3999 BBY,Star Wars Omnibus: Tales of the Jedi Volume 1 dates the events of Tales of the Jedi 4 to 3999 BBY. on the Marauder Starjacker, C'borp took his position at the laser turrets to fire on an Ithullan ore hauler commanded by Captain Gruna, which contained ore that Stonebone wanted to siphon. The ore hauler was defended by Dreebo, an enforcer under the employ of Stonebone's rival, the crime lord Bogga the Hutt. Although Dreebo quickly moved to attack the Marauder Starjacker, every shot he fired missed; taking the opportunity, C'borp fired back at Dreebo, destroying the enforcer's starfighter. C'borp then turned his attention to the ore hauler, destroying the rest of its defenses and allowing the rest of Stonebone's men to start siphoning the ore. After his attack on the ore hauler, C'borp reported his success to Stonebone, who received him with praise. However, Stonebone's crew was surprised by the appearance of the Enforcer One, Bogga's flagship. Bogga's enforcers captured the Marauder Starjacker and took its crew, including C'borp, prisoner. C'borp and his pirate associates were brought to Bogga's estate on the Aweris system moon of Vo Dasha in chains. Although Stonebone's crew were threatened at first, they were offered a chance at exoneration by Bogga if they performed a task for him. The Hutt wanted the group to journey to the desolate planet of Ambria to retrieve a shipment of valuable Adegan crystals that had eluded his grasp some time prior. Stonebone agreed on behalf of the team, and his associates, including C'borp, went to Ambria alongside several of Bogga's top enforcers. Due to knowledge gained from a previous excursion to Ambria, Bogga and his crew knew that the Adegan crystals were being kept at the compound of Jedi Master Thon, Bogga's sworn enemy. Descending out of their skiffs, C'borp and the crew were met by Thon, who did not attack as he was expected to, surprising the pirates. Instead, Thon allowed himself to be taken prisoner by the group. thumb|left|250px|Nomi Sunrider and Thon attack Stonebone and his pirates, including C'borp. However, infighting soon surfaced between Bogga's enforcers and Stonebone's pirates, as the enforcers refused to share the profit from the crystals. The verbal sparring escalated into a brawl between the two sides, with C'borp fighting Fnnbu, the enforcer who had discovered the crystals in the compound. Little did they know, their violent emotions were being influenced through the Force by Nomi Sunrider, a young Jedi trainee under the tutelage of Thon. While the two sides were distracted by the physical confrontation, Sunrider sprang into action, igniting her lightsaber and attacking them. C'borp was helpless to stop Sunrider, and was slain. Sunrider and Thon were ultimately able to drive them off, and the surviving team members were forced to flee Ambria without the crystals. C'borp had tentacle-like arms, orange skin, two black eyes on his head, and a slug-like tail. He was willing to perform illegal activities, as he found work as the gunner on Stonebone's pirate vessel and assisted in illegal ore siphoning, taking pride in a job well done. He was also very competent at his job, and found his work met with praise by Stonebone. On Ambria, C'borp was easily influenced by mental Force powers, being manipulated by Sunrider to behave violently. C'borp manned a gunner's station on the Maurader Starjacker and used it to successfully attack an Ithullan ore hauler. He was capable enough in hand-to-hand combat to take on the Hutt enforcer Fnnbu, but was quickly killed by Jedi trainee Nomi Sunrider with her lightsaber when she attacked. C'borp wore a brown tunic with brown pauldrons on both shoulders. C'borp first appeared in in the fourth issue of the Tales of the Jedi comic book series, which was written by Tom Veitch, illustrated by David Roach, and published by Dark Horse Comics on January 18, 1994. *Tales of the Jedi 4 *Tales of the Jedi 5 *Star Wars Encyclopedia *A Guide to the Star Wars Universe, Third Edition, Revised and Expanded *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Individuals of unspecified gender Category:Individuals of unidentified species Category:Individuals with he/him pronouns Category:Pirates