32475
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Brigadier
Brigadier
4381

thumb|Alliance [[8th Division Brigadier]] Brigadier was a rank in some military organizations, senior to a Colonel but below a Major General. Officers with the rank of Brigadier did not necessarily command Brigades, but brigade commanders could have been referred to as "brigadiers," even if they held a different rank. Brigadier General was also a military rank. The earliest direct evidence for the rank of Brigadier dates from around the time of the Clone Wars, when it was borne by officers like Locus Geen, who led ground forces during the Coruscant Insurrection, and Gideon Tarkin, a member of a military family from Eriadu whose brother Wilhuff later became the feared Imperial Grand Moff of the Outland Regions. Little is known of the exact significance of the rank of Brigadier at this time, but it seems that it was confined to the non-clone units which came to augment the original Grand Army of the Republic over the course of the war, and Brigadier Tarkin was recorded as already holding his rank on his homeworld shortly before the Military Creation Act, making it probable (though not quite certain) that a rank of Brigadier was already in use with locally-based military forces within Republic space before the outbreak of the war. Under the Empire, there were very few references to a rank of Brigadier, with the position of High Colonel being somewhat analogous. However, there was at least one individual who held this title, Brigadier Nevar, who was aboard the AT-AT walker Blizzard 2 at the Battle of Hoth, and was apparently assassinated shortly before it was destroyed by the snowspeeders of the Rebel Alliance. In the New Republic, the rank of Brigadier was used within the military-style rank hierarchy of New Republic Intelligence, even though NRI was not known to have contained units designated as Brigades, or indeed to have had any higher hierarchy of general ranks. Brigadiers in Intelligence included Collomus, Colin Darkmere, and former front-line soldier Bren Derlin. In the real world, "Brigadier" and "Brigadier General" are equivalent ranks in the British and American armed forces. Brigadier Locus Geen is called a "General" in The Dark Forces Saga online game scenario, and the Imperial officer identified as "Brig. Nevar" in the book Inside the Worlds of Star Wars Trilogy&mdash;apparently the only reference to a "Brigadier" in the Imperial military&mdash;had originally been named as "General Nevar" in the Star Wars Customizable Card Game. *Knight Errant *Shield of Lies *Dark Empire Sourcebook *Cracken's Rebel Operatives *Star Wars Galaxies: The Total Experience: Prima Official Game Guide *Knights of the Old Republic Campaign Guide |cards= }} *Galaxy of Intrigue Category:Grand Army of the Republic ranks Category:Imperial Army ranks Category:New Republic Defense Force ranks