32496
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Xanas_City
Xanas City
4010

|climate= |interest=An office building |population= |demonym= |affiliation= }} Xanas City was located in the Mid Rim's Xanas system. After the Battle of Endor, the Xanas City&ndash;based arms dealer Magresh had medical supplies stolen from the Galactic Empire's 656th regiment. The regiment's Captain Noran Vran purchased the supplies back in exchange for ten missile launchers. The weapons, however, were rigged to explode, which they ultimately did, leaving a crater in Xanas City's streets where the building Magresh was based in previously stood. Xanas City was a settlement located in the Xanas system of the Mid Rim's Xan sector. At some point not long after the death of Galactic Emperor Palpatine at the Battle of Endor of 4 ABY,The New Essential Chronology criminals affiliated with the Xanas City arms dealer Magresh stole medical supplies from the West County ordnance dump of the Galactic Empire's 656th regiment. On the following day, as payment for retrieving the supplies, the regiment's Captain Noran Vran took a transport and a team of troopers carrying crates with ten missile launchers to the building out of which Magresh was operating. Unbeknownst to the weapons merchant, however, the missile warheads had been rigged to explode, and, after handing off the crates in exchange for the medical supplies, Vran took a Chariot command speeder to an area of Xanas City overlooking Magresh's building. At the end of a predetermined countdown, the warheads exploded, with the shockwaves reaching Vran and leaving a crater in the streets of the city. Xanas City featured a secluded section in which a three-story office building was situated. The arms dealer Magresh based his operations out of the building. The city also had a slightly elevated area overlooking the streets as well as the building. Xanas City appeared in "A Pleasure Doing Business With You…," a short companion narrative included in Heroes & Rogues, a 1995 sourcebook written by Paul Sudlow and Rick Stuart for West End Games' Star Wars: The Roleplaying Game. Category:Cities Category:Xan sector locations