32749
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Samnt
Samnt
5536

Samnt was a Human male living on the planet Dantooine during 3956 BBY. While visiting the world's Jedi Enclave in that year, he ran into the grieving woman Elise Montagne, who he began talking with. The two had been unintentionally brought together by the Jedi Padawan Revan and they eventually lived happily ever after with each other. The Human man Samnt was a settler on the Outer Rim Territories planet Dantooine during the Jedi Civil War in 3956 BBY. In that year,The Essential Atlas places the events of Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic, which includes Samnt's appearance, in 3956 BBY. another Human settler named Elise Montagne had her companion droid destroyed by the amnesiac former Sith Lord Revan. After the droid's destruction, Montagne ran into Samnt at the planet's Jedi Enclave and began talking with him. The two found that they held much in common and stayed together with each other in a suite in the enclave. When Revan came across the pair, Samnt rudely asked the Jedi Padawan what heThe Old Republic: Revan wanted, causing Montagne to apologize for him. The Padawan and the woman then talked independently of Samnt. The man helped Montagne through her grief of her deceased husband and the pair eventually lived happily ever after. Samnt was considered fascinating by Montagne and she thought they would be seeing more of each other; both appeared very interested. He helped her through her grief and lived happily with the woman. When Revan came across them, Samnt possessed a rude demeanor, and Montagne had to apologize for his action. The man had blue eyes, black hair, and light skin. While with Montagne in the Jedi Enclave, Samnt wore green robes over a light blue shirt and brown pants. The outfit was accompanied with a brown belt, brown boots, and gray gloves. Samnt first appeared in the 2003 BioWare video game Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic. Samnt will only appear, as part of an optional side guest, if the player destroys C8-42 and tells Elise Montagne of his fate. Upon finding Samnt and Montagne together, the player can give their opinion on the man, two options being calling him nice or not impressive. If the player chooses a female character to play as, they can comment that he is "meh," and that they have seen better. If the player is male, they can say that Samnt is not half the man they are. If companion Bastila Shan is in the party when this happens, she will comment that if Samnt's ego is similary halved, he could be right. No dialogue option affects the player's alignment. *Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic *Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic: Prima's Official Strategy Guide Category:Dantooinians Category:Humans Category:Individuals with he/him pronouns Category:Males