32856
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Star_Wars:_Connections
Star Wars: Connections
3637

Star Wars: Connections is a series of four videos hosted by R2-D2 and C-3PO, who have been tasked by Luke Skywalker to chronicle the connections of the Star Wars saga. They originally aired on the FOX television network during the lead-up to the theatrical release of Star Wars: Episode II Attack of the Clones. The FOX network aired Episodes V, VI and I of the Star Wars saga, and Episode IV will appear in syndication in several markets. Each of the films will be accompanied by a new introductory segment titled Star Wars: Connections - Featuring R2-D2 and C-3PO. Anthony Daniels reprises his role in the golden suit, accompanied by the always faithful and always quarrelsome R2-D2, to record the complete history of the Skywalker family. Each segment compiles clips from Episodes I, IV, V and VI, and includes exclusive footage of next month's Attack of the Clones. C-3PO explains how the characters tie the series together into one epic story. A New Hope aired in syndication, The Empire Strikes Back aired on FOX on April 25, Return of the Jedi on May 2, and The Phantom Menace on May 9 of 2002. One of the segments of Connections was included in the release of Attack of the Clones in VHS format. In 2004, the series was released as The Story of Star Wars, a 3-disc set for VideoNow Color. The first two discs were an overview of the first five Star Wars films released (Episodes I, II, IV, V, and VI) and the third was dedicated to behind-the-scenes footage. In 2005, a DVD version was included with some initial copies of the Revenge of the Sith DVD only at Wal-Mart stores in the United States. The DVD was presented in full frame with Dolby Digital 2.0 sound and ran 1 hour in total. This version contained only the content from the first two VideoNow discs: The Story of Anakin Skywalker and The Story of Luke Skywalker. (As it was produced in 2002, the footage used contains no scenes from Revenge of the Sith nor does it have the changes contained in the 2004 DVD Special Edition releases.) Category:Documentaries Category:Home video