33189
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Xiong_Wong
Xiong Wong
3098

Chief Warrant Officer Xiong Wong&mdash;also known as "Chiefy" was the head of electronic countermeasures on the New Hope and an old friend of Jan Ors's father. Before or during the Galactic Civil War, Wong befriended the Alderaanian Ors family, and became a friend of the father of Jan Ors. By the later War period, he served on the New Hope, the flagship of the Alliance to Restore the Republic, and became the head of the electronic countermeasures section.Dark Forces: Rebel Agent During his duty he would often be found into the bowels of the flagship, where technical trouble usually was. In 5 ABY the New Hope was near the medical frigate Mercy, from where Jan Ors arrived to meet him. Wong with two of his technicians was working on a junction box in a floodlit equipment bay. He was happy that she interrupted their work and symbolically offered to "buy" her lunch at the ship's lunchroom. Ors needed his expertise, or acquaintances, to help her read an encrypted holodisk which she "borrowed" from Kyle Katarn. Wong took her to Wires, one who could slice the disk for Ors. Wires didn't open the door of his storeroom, and Wong banged it with a hydrospanner, and resolved to blackmailing him with Lieutenant Commander Olifer learning what Wires had dine with the ship's tracking computer. He promised to leave Wires alone, and Olifer in ignorance, if he could have the holodisk decoded. He and Ors stayed for the next two hours with Wires as he worked. Wong was sensitive with his equipment, and he became grumpy when he caught others abusing it. He was called "that miserable old geezer" behind his back by subordinates and colleagues who disliked him. The nickname of "Chiefy" was mainly used as a term of endearment by those who liked him. Typically he temporarily dropped his tools while he proceeded with his work, leaving a trail of them behind him. *Dark Forces: Rebel Agent Category:Alliance Military members Category:Individuals of unspecified species Category:Males Category:Technicians