33180
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Rolanda_Gron
Rolanda Gron
3772

Rolanda Gron was a male Klatooinian technologist who worked for the Rebel Alliance during the Galactic Civil War. After the Rebellion was a successful in bringing a critical blow to the Empire and transforming to the New Republic, Jedi Master Qu Rahn assembled a team in order to discover the mythical Valley of the Jedi and Gron joined him as an expert. On a mission to the planet Dorlo a year after the battle of Endor, the team recruited linguist Nij Por Ral, but on their way back to Duno Dree's transport they had to leave their skimmer behind, pursued by Jerec's forces. Cee Norley requested to stop to take a breath, and criticised Rahn's strategy to reach their ship on foot, as the team wasn't up to the task, and mentioning Gron as a mere technologist. Gron reacted, saying that it was her who requested to stop.Dark Forces: Rebel Agent audio drama Eventually the ship was intercepted and the team was captured aboard the Vengeance. During the capture Gron suffered a cut wound that caused bleeding. When Rahn joined them in the brig, Gron expressed his worry about what they were going to do them. Captain Sysco with some Imperial commandos brought the party to the ship's bridge before Jerec. The Dark Jedi showed curiosity about the party, when Gron stepped forward, saying beforehand that he will reveal nothing to him. Seeing his defiance, Jerec made an example by ordering his death; Dark Jedi Gorc, ridden by Picaroon C. Boodle approaced him; Gron would drop back if he wasn't held by the guards. Pic jumped on him and slit his throat with a dagger, let his body drop, and then wiped his dagger on the dead technologist's clothes. In the audio adaptation of Dark Forces: Rebel Agent, he was voiced by Tom Keith. *Dark Forces: Rebel Agent *Dark Forces: Rebel Agent audio drama *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Alliance to Restore the Republic members Category:Klatooinians Category:Males Category:New Republic individuals Category:Technicians