33183
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Mercy_(hospital_ship)
Mercy (hospital ship)
6742

The Mercy was a Imperial frigate, appropriated by the Rebel Alliance while still under construction, and put in service by them as a hospital ship prior to the Battle of Endor. The Mercy was a EF76 Nebulon-B escort frigate. After its refit as a hospital ship, it could accommodate around 5000 patients, with 4250 bacta tanks&mdash;although even that was far from sufficient to meet the casualties of the Galactic Civil War. The ship was often crammed with injured and possibly dying Rebels. The ship's Ward 114 was reserved for members of Alliance Intelligence and special forces. The ship that would become Mercy was being constructed by the Galactic Empire; before it even was completed, it was captured by the Rebel Alliance and repurposed as a hospital ship sometime during the Galactic Civil War. The Mercy was present in the Endor system in the aftermath of the Battle of Endor. thumb|left|[[Kyle Katarn healing in a bacta tank onboard Mercy.]] Grenvil Taadus served on Mercy as a medical officer after the Bakura Incident. In 5 ABY, Mercy was orbiting a devastated planet, accompanied by an antiquated Dreadnaught, two Assault frigates, a squadron of Corellian Gun ships and other support vessels. It was receiving six thousands casualties from the recent Imperial attack on the planet Shackel. Despite its size, it was overcrowded by wounded Rebel soldiers. Unable to accommodate all, they had to stay in the corridors, on makeshift beds, and its crew resolved to antiquated medicine because of the lack of adequate Bacta tanks. Kyle Katarn, having sustained a serious injury on Nar Shaddaa was healed in Tank 23 located in Bacta Ward 114, enjoying high priority treatment thanks to his status in the SpecOps, despite the urgent situation. After his recovery, Kyle and Jan Ors went on to Sulon to find the map to the Valley of the Jedi. The ship was part of the fleet stationed at Milagro when a damaged Imperial-class Star Destroyer entered the system with a convoy of transports, and was defeated by the Rebel Dreadnaught New Hope. The Mercy was first mentioned in The Truce at Bakura Sourcebook as a medical frigate. A Nebulon-B medical frigate later appeared in the video game Star Wars: Jedi Knight: Dark Forces II, which was identified as the Mercy in the novel Dark Forces: Rebel Agent. However, the novel incorrectly described the ship to be more than two kilometers long, in contradiction with the specifications of the Nebulon-B frigate.The New Essential Guide to Vehicles and Vessels *Star Wars: Empire at War *Dark Forces: Rebel Agent *Dark Forces: Rebel Agent audio drama *Star Wars: Jedi Knight: Dark Forces II *Dark Forces: Jedi Knight *Dark Forces: Jedi Knight audio drama *The Truce at Bakura Sourcebook *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Captured starships Category:EF76 Nebulon-B escort frigates Category:Medical starships Category:Starships of the Alliance to Restore the Republic Category:Starships of the Galactic Empire Category:Starships of the New Republic