33194
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Rogg
Rogg
7239

Rogg was a male Tusken Raider who succeeded KkH'Oar'Rrhr as leader of the Grave Tuskens, a swoop gang of Tusken mercenaries in service to the Dark Jedi Maw. When Kyle Katarn and WeeGee attempted to escape from the Katarn homestead into Barons Hed, the band of Tuskens pursued them on swoops, though Rogg was assassinated during the chase by Bordo, his nominal second-in-command who was eager to usurp him as leader of the Grave Tuskens. Rogg was among the Tusken Raiders who admired KkH'Oar'Rrhr and abandoned their homeworld of Tatooine with him in search of A'Sharad Hett, a Tusken-raised Human who left the planet in disgrace after he was unmasked in a duel with Jedi Master Obi-Wan Kenobi, a severe trespass in Tusken culture. The band searched the Outer Rim Territories, from Portug to Dromund Kaas, for Hett, but the searched ultimately proved futile, and the Tuskens were left destitute, hungry and discouraged. However, they were eventually found on Dromund Kaas by the Dark Jedi Maw, a minion of Emperor Palpatine, who organized Hoar's Tuskens into a swoop gang. Transporting them to Tython to rob ancient Jedi graves of Force artifacts, Maw dubbed them the Grave Tuskens and Hoar and his riders defiled their traditional Tusken masks, flaunting their bare faces to honor A'Sharad Hett. However, their thievery soon attracted a far more powerful, cyborg Imperial dark-sider: the Emperor's Hand, Arden Lyn. In 2 ABY, after she interfered with one of Hoar's grave raids and defeated him in a duel, Lyn coerced Hoar into joining her mission to assassinate high-profile members of the Alliance to Restore the Republic, and he abandoned the Grave Tuskens to Maw's whim without a second thought and Rogg succeeded him as the swoop gang's leader, with Bordo becoming his nominal second-in-command. However, after three years of following Rogg's commands, Bordo became fed up with his leadership and became one of several Grave Tuskens eager to inherit his position. To ensure his survival, Rogg had opened a matter for discussion, hoping to convince the his band that the traditional system that wanted the leader in the forefront was foolish; but was blocked by Bordo, who regarded Rogg as a coward and wished to usurp his position as leader of the Grave Tuskens. In 5 ABY, the Imperials sent the Grave Tuskens to Sulon and Maw sent some to the Katarn estate, where the Empire had secured a map to the Valley of the Jedi. Rogg's band made a home a rest stop that was located along the highway connecting Baron's Hed with the farmlands. He was notified that a T-4 was stolen and escaped the area, moving towards the capital; it was carrying Kyle Katarn, who had infiltrated his family's home to recover the map, and his droid WeeGee. The band mounted their speeder bikes and ran after him. He saw two of his men being shot down or crashing before the chase brought them to the bridge towards the city. He signaled his men and moved to right side of the transport, dodging Kyle's bursts, which however hit another bandit. Bordo surrounded the vehicle from the left. While Rogg was waiting for the right time to board the T-4, Bordo had already done so. Rogg turned his head towards him, only to be shot in the face, killing him and sending his swoop soaring into a canyon. Confident that his betrayal had gone unnoticed, Bordo then led the gang for the remainder of the pursuit, but he met the same fate, being shot by Katarn who was fending off the Tuskens. Most of Rogg's gang found their end at the hands of Katarn and the resulting explosion, when the T-4 crashed on an Imperial roadblock. A male Tusken Raider, Rogg admired KkH'Oar'Rrhr and joined him in the search for A'Sharad Hett, even defiling his traditional Tusken mask and showing his face in Hett's honor, a severe trespass in Tusken culture. He enjoyed his position as leader of the Grave Tuskens and liked the power that it conveyed, including his followers forming after him, waving his hand to them for encouragement, and screaming war cries of his tribe, even if they couldn't be heard in the noise. However, he regarded the notion of leading from the front as impractical, as he was exposed to danger — and would result in the loss of his valuable knowledge and experience, should he be killed. Rogg wore a charm pouch around his neck with the belief that it would protect him, as he did even at the time of his death. *Dark Forces: Rebel Agent Category:Males Category:Mercenaries Category:Tatooinians Category:Tusken Raiders