33179
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Cee_Norley
Cee Norley
3846

Cee Norley was a Human female Rebel who was trained by Tech Sergeant Hooly. Cee Norley was a weapon's expert. During her youth she remembered that her mother was wearing soft scarves. She was trained by Tech Sergeant Hooly, who insisted on centering on a target while aiming, and not being distracted by annoyances. She also took multiple fire training. In 5 ABY, she accompanied Jedi Master Qu Rahn to Dorlo in order to fetch Nij Por Ral. During the mission their pilot and companion Duno Dree felt attracted to her. Upon their escape on their skimmer, Jerec's forces intervened and Rahn suggested to continue on foot. Their pursuers were led by Jerec's apprentices, guided by Dark Jedi Maw by sensing their fear. Norley was always armed with her two missile launchers, and despite being the only with military training, the trek wore her so much that she insisted to stop. The team took a cover among the trees; Norley criticised Rahn's strategy, as "Druno" was too young, Nij Por Ral was a scholar while Rolanda Gron was just a technologist. Norley agreed with Rahn's plan to stay behind and create a diversion, and ambushed their Imperial skimmer with her launchers. Dark Jedi Sariss momentarily felt her presence, but as Maw failed to sense her waiting there, Sariss supposed that their attacker was trained by Rahn to control fear. She managed to destroy one of the skimmers, the one carrying twenty Stormtroopers. As she picked up the other tube and aimed against the remaining skimmer, the one carrying the Dark Jedi, it was closing on her. She tried to ignore a disturbance on her shoulder and neck, which proved to be a Force choke; Before being able to shoot at the skimmer, Cee dropped the launcher and desperately clawed at her throat, only to be shot by a blaster through her chest by Sariss.Dark Forces: Rebel Agent Her Dark Jedi companion Yun, continued firing at her, blinded by his rage that anyone dared to ambush Dark Jedi. In the audio adaptation of Dark Forces: Rebel Agent, she was voiced by Virginia Burke. *Dark Forces: Rebel Agent *Dark Forces: Rebel Agent audio drama *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Alliance Army personnel Category:Females Category:Humans