33261
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Fido
Fido
3036

thumb|Fido in front of one of the [[Three Sisters.]] Fido was Grif Grawley's probe droid, which Grif used for surveillance and scouting, and as an alarm in the wastelands of Ruusan.Dark Forces: Jedi Knight Grif Grawley built the flyer himself sometime before 5 ABY; according to his custom of naming affectionately his equipment, he gave the drone the name "Fido", and used it when he camped in the desert. One of those routine herding nights turned out to be fateful, when Grif noticed an Imperial probe droid, the harbinger of an invasion. Grif left his post attempting to disable that droid and then walked to Fort Nowhere to warn the settlers. Not long after, the Fort was attacked destroyed, while Grif was safely away. Grif provided refuge to the survivors of the massacre in the ruins of a Jedi temple; eventually the freighter Moldy Crow arrived to the landing zone east of their hideout, and Jan Ors and Kyle Katarn emerged. Fido was sent to approach, and Jan was about to unholster her blaster when Kyle stopped her hand; Fido investigated them and entered the ship to inspect it, where droid WeeGee was stationed. Then by moving to the west, returning, and leaving again, it beckoned the two agents to follow, leading them to their hideout. A couple of days later, Fido notified Grif about the arrival of an AT-AT and an AT-ST approaching from the south. It was a patrol led by Yun, sent to investigate the disappearance of an Imperial patrol that the colonists exterminated earlier. Fido was custom-built, and its components were carried in an old and gruff metallic case. The components included gyros for movements and assortments of sensors. Each time he camped in the desert to herd his gra, Grif assembled the parts into a boomerang-shaped miniature flyer. Griff would throw it do a desired direction and Fido then would soar to an appropriate location, switching its power to standby. During the night, Fido would circle Grif's place at regular five-minute intervals and feed holos to Grif's monitors, sense for signs of danger, such as predators or atmospheric anomalies, and if need be, trigger an alarm. *Dark Forces: Jedi Knight Category:Probe droids