33270
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Lasko
Lasko
5526

Lasko was a Human male settler from Sulon who migrated to Ruusan during the Galactic Civil War. Lasko's wife was killed during in 1 BBY, when an Imperial force under Lord Jerec subjugated Sulon; the woman had joined the Rebel forces that defended the G-Tap against the Imperials.Dark Forces: Jedi Knight At some time earlier or later than that, Lasko joined the Sulonese settlers who had migrated to Ruusan to flee the wrath of the Empire.Dark Forces: Rebel Agent There he started a new life, married again and in 5 ABY had a baby. However his hatred for the Empire had not subsided, and he was to meet again with Jerec's minions: six months after the birth of his baby, the planet had been rediscovered by the Imperial Remnant. An off-world assault shuttle landed in their town, and Lasko was among the curious bystanders who gathered near the landing pad. Seeing the Stormtroopers emerge from inside, led by three Dark Jedi, he wondered openly why they don't just open fire against them. Hearing this, and sensing his hatred through the Force, the Dark Jedi leader, Sariss, picked him from the crowd and Force-choked him nearly to death. As he pumped on the ground, Sariss released him from her hold. Panicked, Lasko was lost into the intimidated throng, and once past it, he started running towards his skimmer, and flew to the badlands and his family who hoped would be safe. Sariss took pleasure with the fear of the citizens, teaching them her lesson. Shortly after, the town was destroyed. Lasko with other survivors fled away to the badlands; they followed Grif Grawley, who knew the area, and hid in an ancient temple. Not long after, an unknown ship, following the directions transmitted by Grif, reached the temple courtyard; Lasko, along with Kimber and Luther Pardy were standing armed beside Grif as he welcomed the pilots, one of whom was an old acquaintance from Sulon, Kyle Katarn, and took their weapons. The three of them were ordered by Grif to cover the newly arrived ship with a netting in order to hide it from Imperial observations, and enter the temple. Inside, Lasko listened carefully Katarn's story, from his defection years ago to the quest for the Valley of the Jedi, which brought him back to their home, Sulon, and his encounter with some of the Seven Dark Jedi. Lasko understood they belonged to the same group he encountered earlier and found his story interesting and believable, and was ready to defend Katarn over Pardy's skepticism. He saw Katarn displaying his Force powers by pulling his lightsaber from Luther's belt. Lasko felt hope knowing that a Jedi would face those Dark Jedi. It is not clear when Lasko migrated to Ruusan. In the Dark Forces: Rebel Agent novella, Morgan Katarn took those settlers from Sulon some months before the Subjugation of Sulon and his own death, where Lasko's wife was also killed. This means that Lasko had followed Katarn to Ruusan while Lasko's wife chose to stay behind to Sulon. Another possibility is that Lasko left for Ruusan in some later date after the Subjugation of Sulon, joining the Sulonese settlers there, in some later migration which is not mentioned. In the audio adaptation of Dark Forces: Jedi Knight Louise Enyeart, who voices Marie Peeno, is also credited as "Lasko". Lasko's name is not heard in the dramatized dialogue. It is possible that "Lasko" is a woman who notices the shuttle with the Dark Jedi landing in Fort Nowhere, and then corrects a man next to her that he shouldn't call Boc Aseca a "wormhead" at his face, but "Twi'lek". *Dark Forces: Jedi Knight Category:Humans Category:Males Category:Ruusanians Category:Sulonese