33285
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Luther_Pardy
Luther Pardy
5382

Luther Pardy was a settler on Ruusan as of 5 ABY. Luther Pardy was a male individual from Sulon. Living during the Imperial Era and the Galactic Civil War he only heard "fairy tales" about the legendary Jedi and the Force. During the Galactic Civil War, he was one of the Sulonese who followed Morgan Katarn off-world in order to escape the wrath of the Galactic Empire. Katarn led them to Ruusan, a forgotten planet known only by smugglers.Dark Forces: Rebel Agent He was in the Smuggler's Rest the night of 5 ABY when Grif Grawley stormed inside to warn them about the arrival of an Imperial Viper probe droid and that they should evacuate Fort Nowhere. Pardy dismissed his worries. It was not long before Grif proved right and the Imperials devastated Fort Nowhere. Despite not thinking high of him, Pardy with other survivors gathered under Grif and hid in an ancient temple. Sometime later, an unknown ship, following the directions transmitted by Grif approached, and Grif inspected them with his flier drone Fido. Looking at the screen, Luther noted that they may not look like Imperials, but they could be bounty hunters, and Grif was leading them right to their hideout. Grif thought that the young man looked like Morgan, and wondered whose side he was; Luther dismissed his thoughts, saying he didn't care to watch him closely, and would find out in a few moments. The ship arrived and landed at the temple courtyard. Pardy, along with Kimber and Lasko were standing armed beside Grif as he welcomed the pilots, one of whom was an old acquaintance from Sulon, Kyle Katarn, and took their weapons. Pardy wore Katarn's blaster and lightsaber. The three of them were ordered by Grif to cover the newly arrived ship with a netting in order to hide it from Imperial observations, and enter the temple.Dark Forces: Jedi Knight Inside, he heard Katarn narrating his background, about his defection from the Empire years ago, the Valley of the Jedi and the Seven Dark Jedi who were quest for the Valley of the Jedi|looking for it on the planet. Pardy was not convinced that Katarn was not an Imperial spy, especially by backing his story with "fairy tales" about the Force, and voiced his doubts. Pardy anticipated an attack from Katarn seeing him standing up, sure that he would defeat Katarn and increase his status in Grawley's eyes. Instead, Katarn pulled his lightsaber from Pardy's belt and ignited it. Pardy took a step back, seeing this, and Grif, convinced by the site, ordered him to return the blaster to him. He reluctantly helped Kyle Katarn reach the Valley of the Jedi. Luther Pardy was a big male individual, with massive shoulders and weighed thirty pounds more than an average human.In Dark Forces: Jedi Knight he is compared to Katarn, presumably an average human male. He also had an underthrust jaw. Like other individuals during the Imperial Period, he doubted that the Force and Jedi ever existed, and did not believe the old stories about them. He was aggressive and was quick to offend Grif Grawley and accuse him as a drunkard. Despite thinking poorly of him, he later had to accept him as leader among the survivors. As a member of the group, he hoped to punish potential Imperial spies to improve his status among them. Luther Pardy first appeared in the novella Dark Forces: Jedi Knight. In the audio adaptation he was voiced by Jack Walsh. It is further mentioned there that Pardy was a Sulonese. *Dark Forces: Jedi Knight Pardy, Luther