33268
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Marie_Peeno
Marie Peeno
4871

Lieutenant Marie Peeno was a Human female smuggler who lived in Fort Nowhere during the Galactic Civil War.Dark Forces: Jedi Knight In 5 ABY, she was Captain Jerg's second-in-command and, allegedly, his mistress. In her capacity she manned the blaster cannon turrets that formed the defense of Fort Nowhere and often she experienced false proximity alerts because of the native Bouncers who happened to approach the sensors, and learned to ignore such notifications.Dark Forces: Jedi Knight audio drama Years later, in 5 ABY she noticed that all sixteen weather satellites operated by the colonists stopped transmitting about the same time, and they were unable to contact them again. That night Grif Grawley entered the Smuggler's Rest to warn about an imminent Imperial invasion, and inquired about the satellites. Asked about ships, she shook her head, as Jerg had left the previous month with all shuttles. The next day, Peeno with Dinko manned one of the town's energy cannons and spied an Imperial assault shuttle making reconaissance flights. Thinking that the shuttle was part of a larger force, and that the Imperials probably wanted to talk, Peeno ordered Dinko to take the cannon off-line, allowing the shuttle to land inside the Fort. Representing the Empire, the Dark Jedi Sariss interviewed Mayor Devo, and then Peeno, about any archaeological finds on the planet, and whether they had encountered any ruins or artifacts. After false promises that the Empire won't touch the illegal settlement, thanks to their cooperation, the shuttle left. Peeno approached Mayor Devo expressing her puzzlement about their questions, and suggested to him to keep it to himself, until they could find any treasures and keep them, but feared that the Imperials were not that stupid. Peeno saw to man the turrets, and found herself again with Dinko, discussing whether they were wrong to be alerted by the arrival of the Imperials after all. Peeno was ready to allow Dinko an early leave for tonight when he noticed an alarm blinking; Peeno dismissed it as yet one false alarm caused by the Bouncers, but she saw that it was not the case. She retreated to an underground bunker to coordinate the defenses for the battle. With her was a teenager volunteer serving as weapons-control officer. On her monitors she saw debris from a TIE/LN starfighter falling on Katarn's Hill, shot by Dinko. A volunteer warned her about the arrival of four assault shuttles and she ordered to launch missiles. She congratulated Dinko for his hit and suggested him to target the hovercraft as the first wave of TIEs was too close. She decided to arm more seven missiles when Dinko tried to warn her that something was locked on them and they should leave. She was killed during the explosion of the missile silos while she was ready to launch the missiles. Peeno had short red hair and wore a nose stud. In the audio adaptation of Dark Forces: Jedi Knight, she was voiced by Louise Enyeart. In the novella Marie Peeno is in a bunker while Dinko is manning a cannon turret during the Battle; in the audio drama Peeno and Dinko are together in a missile silo, and die together while Peeno is arming the missiles. *Dark Forces: Jedi Knight Category:Females Category:Humans Category:Ruusanians Category:Smugglers