33416
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Keoulkeech
Keoulkeech
6027

|children= |affiliation=*Red Bush Grove *Bright Tree Village |masters= |apprentices= }} Keoulkeech was an Ewok shaman and the older brother of Leektar. Growing up in Red Bush Grove, Keoulkeech surpassed Leektar in many areas, including healing and animal bonding. Leektar grew jealous of Keoulkeech and prayed to the Leaf Queen to gain greater status within his tribe; this resulted in an electrical fire spreading across Red Bush Grove, killing all but Leektar and Keoulkeech, though neither of them knew the other was alive. Keoulkeech fought in Chief Chirpa's attack group during the Battle of Endor. thumb|left|250px|Keoulkeech prepares for war After the defeat of the Empire, Keoulkeech was involved in the brief conflict between the Ewoks and their fellow Rebellion allies, the Lahsbees, which developed at the instigation of the Hiromi known as Hirog. Keoulkeech donned an Imperial stormtrooper helmet and belt to prepare for the war that never came.Star Wars (1977) 94 Following the conflicts on Endor, Keoulkeech began working to cure the forest of its pain. It was during this time that he discovered that he could communicate with the Great Trees of the forest moon, telling him which of them needed aid. Keoulkeech was soon reunited with his younger brother Leektar, who had become an Honorary Elder in Bright Tree Village. However, this reunion was not to last. After his healing mission was completed, Keoulkeech visited Salfur's Trading Post, where he saw a Carosite medical transport laden with supplies bound for Yir Tangee. Keoulkeech realized that his healing talents were needed beyond just the forest, and departed with it. He became a passenger aboard the Carosite medical frigate Sudden Restoration, bringing medical service to worlds ravaged by the Galactic Civil War. He also became an associate of the Bith musician Ballifore Figg and the Bimm bard Vasnish Kay. Keoulkeech was named for a warrior and hunter from Ewok mythology.Galactic Campaign Guide thumb|right|250px|Hasbro's Keoulkeech action figure Keoulkeech was first mentioned in the roleplaying game supplement Heroes & Rogues. The book mentions his involvement in the Battle of Endor, but no Ewok in has been identified as that character. Keoulkeech received his first Hasbro action figure in 2008, as part of an Ewok three-pack including Machook and Kettch. The packaging of which suggests an Ewok named Keoulkeech participated in a conflict with the Lahsbees after the Battle of Endor, as seen in Marvel Comics' Star Wars 94. The San Diego Comic Con (SDCC) 2008: Hasbro Star Wars presentation announcing future figures to be released initially identified Keoulkeech as a dark-furred Ewok wearing a red hood; however, Keoulkeech was later released as a tan-colored Ewok wearing a purple hood, the Ewok initially identified as Machook. An unidentified light-furred Ewok wearing stormtrooper armor seen in the Marvel comic matches the action figure package's photo of Keoulkeech. However, Heroes & Rogues says he has brown and gray striped fur. *Star Wars (1977) 94 *Heroes & Rogues *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia *Star Wars: The Ultimate Action Figure Collection Category:Bright Tree tribe Category:Ewoks Category:Healers and doctors Category:Individuals with he/him pronouns Category:Males