33545
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Sith_Council
Sith Council
6439

The Sith Council was a group of ten Sith Lords within the Sith Empire who served as advisors to the reigning Dark Lord of the Sith. This Council convened in a great citadel on Ziost. The Sith Council managed the affairs of the Empire. Each Lord that sat on the Council personally ruled over a minimum of a dozen worlds. When the Exiles established their capitalThe Essential Atlas on Ziost in 6900 BBY,Jedi vs. Sith: The Essential Guide to the Force Ajunta Pall gathered those with rank and ambition who had accompanied him and created the Sith Council. The Council convened in a great citadel on Ziost. thumb|left|200px|The council elects Naga Sadow as the next Dark Lord Naga Sadow, Ludo Kressh, Simus, Dor Gal-ram, and Horak-mul were five of the ten Sith Lords on the Council under Marka Ragnos. After Ragnos's death, two Lords on the council, Naga Sadow and Ludo Kressh, fought over the position of Dark Lord of the Sith. This conflict created a rift within the council, with several lords siding with Kressh, and the rest siding with Sadow. Eventually, Sadow was able to convince the council to make him Dark Lord after he convinced them that the Galactic Republic was executing hit-and-run attacks within the Empire. After Kressh discovered the deception, he and two other lords attacked Sadow's fortress,Tales of the Jedi – The Golden Age of the Sith 4 but they were soundly defeated, and Sadow secured his hold over his title.Tales of the Jedi – The Golden Age of the Sith 5 The Sith Lord Vitiate summoned the remaining members of the Council, along with almost 8,000 other Sith, to his homeworld of Nathema, where he broke their wills and forced them to participate in the Ritual of Nathema&mdash;an act that killed everyone on Nathema other than Vitiate. In a scene in Tales of the Jedi – The Golden Age of the Sith 3 the faces of eight members are shown (excluding Naga Sadow and the already dead Simus). Only one other person (besides Sadow) on the council seems to have Dark Jedi blood with the absence of protruding eyebrow ridges and a squashed nose. The Essential Chronology refers to it both as "a tribunal of Sith Lords" and the "Sith council." *Tales of the Jedi – The Golden Age of the Sith 3 *Tales of the Jedi – The Fall of the Sith Empire 1 *Tales of the Jedi – The Fall of the Sith Empire 2 *Tales of the Jedi – The Fall of the Sith Empire 3 *Tales of the Jedi – The Fall of the Sith Empire 4 *Tales of the Jedi – The Fall of the Sith Empire 5 *The Old Republic: Revan *Star Wars: The Old Republic *Dark Forces: Jedi Knight *The Essential Chronology *The Dark Side Sourcebook *The New Essential Chronology *The Journal of Master Gnost-Dural *Book of Sith: Secrets from the Dark Side *Star Wars: The Old Republic Encyclopedia Category:Legislatures Category:Sith Empire organizations Category:Sith political factions