33694
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Sith_Empire_(disambiguation)
Sith Empire (disambiguation)
5883

Throughout their existence, the Sith Order established several states, most of which were typically known as the Sith Empire: *The Sith Empire that existed after the Hundred-Year Darkness. The Sith Lord Naga Sadow was part of the Sith Empire, which participated in the Great Hyperspace War. *The Sith Empire founded by the fallen Jedi Exar Kun. *The Sith Empire founded by the Sith Lord Darth Siberus. *The Brotherhood of Darkness, also known as the Sith Empire, was an army of the Sith before the rise of the Galactic Republic. Its fall led Darth Bane to establish the Rule of Two. *The Confederacy of Independent Systems or the Separatists; though it did not count as a "Sith Empire," it was secretly led by Darth Sidious and Darth Tyranus. *The Galactic Empire, which was established by Dark Lord of the Sith Darth Sidious through the ashes of the Galactic Republic. It did not count as a "Sith Empire" due to the presence of the Sith being kept a state secret. *The First Order; though it did not count as a "Sith Empire," it was secretly controlled by Darth Sidious and the Sith Eternal. *The Final Order, also known as the Sith Eternal fleet, the Sith Empire, the New Order or the New Empire, was a Sith fleet of Star Destroyers brought about by the Sith Eternal. *The Sith Empire, named the Kingdom of the Sith, established by the Sith of Korriban following their victory over the invading Rakata and relocation to neighbor planet Ziost. *The Sith Empire, founded by Dark Jedi exiled from the Galactic Republic after the Hundred-Year Darkness. *The Sith Empire under Exar Kun's Brotherhood of the Sith during the Great Sith War. *Darth Revan's Sith Empire during the Jedi Civil War. **The Sith Triumvirate, a loose alliance of what remained of Revan's Empire *The reconstituted Sith Empire or the true Sith, established by Darth Vitiate (Tenebrae) from the remains of the "First" Sith Empire. It remained hidden until the Great Galactic War. **The New Empire of Darth Malgus formed from forces of the above empire during the Galactic War. *The New Sith Empire or the reorganized Sith Empire founded by the fallen Jedi Darth Ruin during the New Sith Wars **The Brotherhood of Darkness, founded by Skere Kaan, took the place of the fragmented Sith Empire. *The Confederacy of Independent Systems or the Separatists; though it didn't count as a "Sith Empire," it was secretly led by Darth Sidious and Darth Tyranus. *The Galactic Empire, established by Darth Sidious from the Galactic Republic, though it didn't count as a "Sith Empire" due to the presence of the Sith being kept a state secret. **The Dark Empire, a faction also ruled by Palpatine which, like a traditional Sith Empire, was ruled with the Emperor's allegiance to the dark side not being hidden. Formed from remnants of the Galactic Empire. *The Galactic Federation of Free Alliances under the political reign of Darth Caedus, though like the Galactic Empire it was not officially considered a Sith Empire. Formed from the New Republic that took the place of the First Galactic Empire. *Darth Krayt's Galactic Empire, also known as the Darth Krayt's Sith Empire, established by Darth Krayt following the end of the Sith–Imperial War and the successor state to Darth Sidious' Galactic Empire. Unlike its original incarnation, Sith rule was public and thus it was officially considered a Sith Empire.