33929
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Fast_style
Fast style
3312

The fast style of lightsaber combat was a style used by members of the New Jedi Order such as Kyle Katarn. thumb|left|[[Kyle Katarn in the basic stance of the fast style.]] Utilizing short and quick motions with the blade that could be chained and combined almost indefinitely, this style allowed for multiple attacks at an extremely fast pace. It utilized a defensive stance where the lightsaber was held across the front of the user, ready to parry attacks and deflect blaster shots or to launch short, fast jabs and cuts.Star Wars: Jedi Knight II: Jedi Outcast'Star Wars: Jedi Knight: Jedi Academy The style's main advantage was that it was effective in one-on-one combat against slower opponents with lax defenses or multiple opponents who were not wielding melee weapons, especially when combined with Force speed. Among the three styles, this provided a solid defense against blaster fire. In lightsaber combat, the user could also effectively defend against multiple opponents or a single, stronger opponent. Relying primarily on speed and multiple attacks, the fast style had certain disadvantages. Firstly, its attacks focus on speed which limited the amount of power behind them, making it easy for a strike to be parried or overpowered. Secondly, its attack range was considerably shorter, forcing the practitioner to take down multiple opponents one at a time unless they're grouped closely together. Third, the fast style's defenses could quickly be broken by an opponent with superior physical strength. Since the blade was kept so close to the body, a strong, cunning opponent will simply hammer the user's blade in the hopes that the practitioner would tire and leave themselves open. thumb|right|Alora using a [[Jar'Kai/Legends|Jar'Kai variant of the Fast style against Rosh Penin]] This style bore some similarities to the Soresu form of the Jedi Order, since practitioners kept the blade close to their bodies for a very rapid and effective defense against melee weapons and blasters. It also shared similarities with Ataru, making use of acrobatic jumps and rolls to strike an opponent from unexpected angles. Tavion Axmis used a variant of the fast style that had many similarities to that of Shien, being more aggressive and offensive than the fast style that is used by Kyle Katarn. Fast style enabled very fast parries or trap shunts, allowing users to trap and then redirect an opponent's strike to knock them off-balance. *Star Wars: Jedi Knight II: Jedi Outcast *Star Wars: Jedi Knight: Jedi Academy *Book of Sith: Secrets from the Dark Side Category:Lightsaber combat Category:New Jedi Order