34131
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/91st_Mobile_Reconnaissance_Corps
91st Mobile Reconnaissance Corps
15896

recon |formation=Corps |commander=*Jedi General Mace Windu *Jedi General Adi Gallia *Jedi General Oppo Rancisis *Jedi General Stass Allie |second=*Clone Marshal Commander Neyo *Clone Commander Ponds |staff=Unidentified clone lieutenant |subunit=Lightning SquadronStar Wars: On the Front Lines |strength=*Advanced Recon Force Scout Troopers *Biker Advanced Recon Commandos *Clone troopers *Clone sharpshootersStar Wars Battlefront II *Clone trooper officers *Heavy weapons clone troopers |vehicles=*All Terrain Reconnaissance Transports *All Terrain Tactical Enforcers *BARC speeders *Low Altitude Assault Transport/infantrys |headquarters= |location= |battles=*Battle of Ryloth *Battle of Malastare *Battle of Patitite Pattuna *Siege of Saleucami *Great Jedi Purge |formed= |founded= |fragmented= |reorganized= |dissolved= |restored= |affiliation=*Galactic Republic **Grand Army of the Republic *Galactic Empire **Imperial Army }} The 91st Mobile Reconnaissance Corps, also identified as the 91st Mobile Reconnaissance Force, the 91st Expeditionary Corps, or simply as the 91st Recon Corps, was a clone trooper corps in the Grand Army of the Republic. During the Clone Wars, a pan-galactic conflict between the Galactic Republic and Confederacy of Independent Systems, the 91st was placed under the command of Jedi General Adi Gallia and Clone Marshal Commander Neyo. Throughout the war, Jedi General Mace Windu was also in command of the corps, with Jedi Generals Oppo Rancisis and Stass Allie taking command during the Siege of Saleucami and its aftermath. Following the transformation of the Galactic Republic into the Galactic Empire and the commencement of the Great Jedi Purge, the 91st Mobile Reconnaissance Corps was reorganized under the new Imperial Army. thumb|left|304x304px|A clone sharpshooter of the 91st Mobile Recon Corps. The 91st Mobile Reconnaissance Corps, also identified as the 91st Mobile Reconnaissance Force,Star Wars: The Clone Wars: Character Encyclopedia - Join the Battle! or as the 91st Expeditionary Corps, was a corps in the Grand Army of the Republic, and as such consisted of 36,864 troopers divided into sixteen regiments.Star Wars: Complete Locations establishes that a corps in the Grand Army of the Republic contains 36,864 clone troopers divided into sixteen regiments. Since the 91st Mobile Reconnaissance Corps is a corps within the Grand Army, it must have 36,864 troopers divided into sixteen regiments. It contained Lightning Squadron, a specialized armored cavalry squadron of Advanced Recon Force Scout Troopers. The 91st's clone troopers also consisted of Biker Advanced Recon Commandos as well as standard troopers, clone sharpshooters, clone trooper officers, and heavy weapons clone troopers. The 91st Mobile Reconnaissance Corps was under the leadership of Jedi General Adi Gallia, though Master of the Order General Mace Windu led at least parts of it during the Battle of Ryloth. During the Siege of Saleucami, the 91st was temporarily placed under the command of Council member Jedi General Oppo Rancisis, and once the siege was finished, Jedi General Stass Allie took command of the 91st to clear out any pockets of resistance. The 91st's commanding clone officer was Clone Marshal Commander Neyo, who was placed in command following his promotion earlier in the Clone Wars. thumb|left|300px|91st Biker Advanced Recon Commandos on patrol aboard BARC speeders The 91st Recon Corps standard clone troopers of the corps had deep red markings and characteristic mark on their armor. Standard clone troopers made use of the Phase I clone trooper armor, ARF trooper armor, and later Phase II clone trooper armor and phase II BARC trooper armor. Soldiers of the 91st Recon Corps were typically equipped with DC-15A blasters. The 91st Recon Corps used a variety of vehicles. The corps' aerial component consisted of LAAT/i gunships. Ground vehicles consisted of walkers such as All Terrain Tactical Enforcers, All Terrain Reconnaissance Transports and BARC speeders. At times, members of the 91st Recon Corps were present aboard the Venator-class Star Destroyer Endurance. The corps also rode on blurrg, native beasts of Ryloth, when they assaulted the planet's capital city of Lessu. The 91st Mobile Recon Corps was part of the Grand Army of the Republic and fought in the Clone Wars between the Galactic Republic and the Separatist Alliance, with the clone troopers under the unit considering themselves to be elite soldiers. Early during the war, the 91st participated in the Battle of Ryloth, when Jedi General Mace Windu, alongside Clone Commander Ponds, led their forces to attempt to liberate the capital of Lessu City. En route to Ryloth's capital city on a cliff, General Windu's armored forces came under attack by a group of Armored Assault Tanks while traversing a road alongside a mountain. The contingent of Separatist Alliance forces were able to stop the Republic troops briefly, but were defeated by Lightning Squadron, which were deployed from the AT-TEs of the 91st. After that skirmish, Windu, Stak, and Razor came across General Cham Syndulla of the Twi'lek Resistance and his men after they took out a droid patrol. At first, Syndulla was hesitant to join Windu due to another possible occupation by the Republic, but when he learned that the Separatists were bombing Twi'lek villages with Hyena-class Droid Bombers, Syndulla decided to help the Republic. Reaching Lessu, Windu and the two ARF troopers then hid inside an MTTs that was part of a convoy entering the city. Windu then ordered Syndulla and Commander Ponds to commence the attack after bridge was on. The battle droids scanned the cargo on the bridge, and they discovered Windu and his men. After he subdued the droids, Windu pushed his troopers across the bridge as it was being turned off by the droids. As he fell, Windu was able to jump on one of the STAPs and get to other side of the bridge. Windu then held off the droids as Stak and Razor made their way to the control room. After destroying droids in control room They were then able to turn the bridge on and hold it against a few droid reinforcements, including a pair of commando droids. Syndulla and his men fought the battle droids as Windu went to capture Separatist Emir Wat Tambor, liberating Lessu. At some point after the Battle of Ryloth, the 91st fought onObi-Wan 4 the planet Saleucami. Fighting alongside Commander Mekedrix of Roon's military defense forces,Obi-Wan 3 three clones from the 91st, one of them an officer, rode BARC speeders as part of the engagement. The Confederacy's efforts on the planet Malastare were successful, so Supreme Chancellor Sheev Palpatine ordered the use of an electro-proton bomb to deactivate the Separatists' droid army. The bomb worked, but had the unforeseen effect of creating a sinkhole. Windu, alongside Ponds and troopers; "Hawkeye" and "Trapper" discovered the Zillo Beast. After the Battle on Malastare young Boba Fett infiltrate Windu's Venator-class Star Destroyer Endurance. Fett didn't kill Windu but he crushed the ship on planet Vanqor. Most of the crew evacuated, but Fett, with help of the Aurra Sing, Bossk and Castas, captured Admiral Shoan Kilian, Commander Ponds and a clone naval officer. Shortly after this, Ponds was executed by Aurra Sing. Later in the war Gallia's Jedi cruiser was attacked by a Separatist fleet under the command of General Grievous. Gallia and her troops battled the cyborg when he boarded her cruiser, putting up a good fight but she was ultimately defeated and captured. Later she watched as Grievous attacked a pirate ship. Gallia was soon rescued by Plo Koon, "Wolffe," and the 104th Battalion; again, Grievous escaped before he could be taken into custody. In 20 BBY,Star Wars: Timelines Clone Commander Neyo's DUM-series pit droid, WAC-47, transferred from the 91st to Colonel Meebur Gascon's D-Squad. The droid squad later saved high-ranking members of the Republic Military echelon, including Neyo, from a Separatist attack on the Valor space station. thumb|325px|Commander Neyo executing Order 66 on Stass Allie Just as they had earlier in the war, the 91st was deployed to Saleucami during the Outer Rim Sieges. After the Republic claimed victory, General Stass Allie, Neyo, and another clone lieutenant patrolled the battlefield afterward. At that moment, Supreme Chancellor Palpatine triggered Order 66, causing clone troopers across the galaxy to betray and kill their Jedi leaders. As a result, Allie was executed by Neyo and the other clone while on a speeder bike patrol. After Order 66 and the transformation of the Republic into the Galactic Empire, the 91st Recon Corps continued to serve in its ground forces and actively fought for the new regime. *Star Wars Battlefront II *Obi-Wan 4 *Star Wars: On the Front Lines *Star Wars Encyclopedia of Starfighters and Other Vehicles *Star Wars: The Clone Wars: Character Encyclopedia - Join the Battle! *Star Wars: Battles that Changed the Galaxy *Star Wars Encyclopedia: The Comprehensive Guide to the Star Wars Galaxy Category:Grand Army of the Republic corps Category:Imperial Army corps