34258
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Valley_of_the_Spirits
Valley of the Spirits
5066

*Rills *Womp rats |flora= |interest=Tusken village |affiliation=Tusken Raiders }} The Valley of the Spirits was home to the Tusken Raider village that was slaughtered by Anakin Skywalker in 22 BBY. When his mother died in his arms, Anakin went on a murderous rampage, slaughtering every Tusken in the camp. When the remains of the camp were found by other Tuskens, they believed that a ghost or demon haunted the area and that it had been the cause of death for the other Tusken Raiders. In 4 BBY, Luke Skywalker and Biggs Darklighter, following a band of Tuskens at a distance, went to see the site after the Tuskens had left. Luke, unknowingly using Psychometry on the scene, was profoundly unsettled and found himself begging Biggs to get them away; later he would describe the feeling as worse than a nightmare and reflect that this was the first time he had ever been truly terrified.A New Hope: The Life of Luke Skywalker thumb|250px|The ruined Tusken Raider village at the Valley of the Spirits during the Galactic Civil War. During the Galactic Civil War, a Force-sensitive spacer training to become a Jedi used a Force-attuned crystal to speak to a Jedi Master named Nos'lyn. The Master gave the spacer two tasks to aid in meditation. First, the initiate traveled to a Force nexus on Tatooine, an oasis where predatory creatures and their prey lived as harmonious herbivores. However, soon after, the Jedi Master dispatched the trainee to the Valley of the Spirits, where the same species of creatures were all fighting amongst each other at the ruins of the Tusken camp due to the strong aura of the dark side present there. The spacer was instructed to put the creatures out of their misery. Tusken Raiders visiting the camp often made sacrifices of objects and organics to satisfy the ghost. They usually sacrificed beasts but in 8 ABY, they kidnapped and attempted to sacrifice Kitster Banai, the painting and brought them back to the Valley of the Spirits, where they planned on sacrificing him to the "angry ghost" that had slain an entire tribe with a "glowing, humming sword." He ironically was an old friend of Anakin's. Kitster was saved by Han and Leia Organa Solo, also ironically Anakin's son-in-law and daughter respectively.Tatooine Ghost *Star Wars: Episode II Attack of the Clones junior novelization *Star Wars: Episode II — Attack of the Clones 3 *The Life and Legend of Obi-Wan Kenobi *The Rise and Fall of Darth Vader *A New Hope: The Life of Luke Skywalker *Tatooine Ghost *The New Essential Chronology *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Jundland Wastes locations Category:Tusken Raider culture Spirits