34616
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Unidentified_Acme_Droid_Service_salesman
Unidentified Acme Droid Service salesman
5696

An alien worked as a salesman for Acme Droid Service in Mos Eisley on the planet Tatooine, in 0 BBY. The droid pair C-3PO and R2-D2 took refuge from Imperial stormtroopers within the service building and attempted to blend in with other droids using the parts available for sale. After the troopers left, the pair tried to leave without paying for the parts. The salesman halted the droids and threatened C-3PO as all sales were final. Before the alien could harm C-3PO, R2-D2 shot a laser into the salesman's rear end, causing them to release the droid and run out of the building. In 0 BBY,The events of Droids (1986) 7 occur before the Battle of Yavin simultaneously with , which The New Essential Chronology dates to 0 BBY. the alien worked as a saleman for Acme Droid Service in Mos Eisley on the planet Tatooine. They stood behind a desk and took orders from several droids when the protocol droid C-3PO and astromech droid R2-D2 took refuge in the building from Imperial stormtroopers. The fugitive droids got in line behind multiple other droid customers and were eventually called to the front by the alien. C-3PO ordered multiple parts to help the pair blend in with the other droids until the stormtroopers had passed. thumb|right|300px|The salesman threatens C-3PO With the coast clear, the two droids threw off their disguises and attempted to leave Acme Droid Service without paying. The alien left the booth and stood in the droids' path carrying a spiked mace, telling the droids that they were not permitted to leave before providing their master charge disks. C-3PO claimed that they were simply looking and was then picked up by the salesman, who fiercely exclaimed that all sales were final as they smashed their mace into a wall. They raised their weapon at the protocol droid before his astromech companion shot a laser into the salesman's rear end, setting it on fire. The alien released the droid and leapt into the air yelping before running out of the building into a pair of stormtroopers, who then pursued the droids. The salesman was a large green-skinned male alien with green hair. They ran Acme Droid Service aggressively, threatening droids who attempted to leave without paying, and wasn't fond of individuals simply looking, derogatorily referring to them as "lookers." They wore a red full-body suit with blue accents on the arms, legs, neck ring, and boots. The shoulders of the suit had circular blue symbols with a yellow star in the center. Around their waist they wore a blue belt with multiple pockets and a tool holder for a pair of pliers. The salesman wielded a spiked mace they used to threaten non-paying customers. The Acme Droid Service salesman appeared in the seventh issue of the 1986 Star Wars: Droids comic book series. The issue was written by David Manak, penciled by Ernie Colón, and published by Marvel Comics on January 13, 1987.Marvel Age 48 *Droids (1986) 7 Category:Businesspeople Category:Individuals of unidentified species Category:Individuals with unspecified pronouns Category:Males Category:Tatooinians