34741
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Great_Hyperspace_War_Bas-Relief
Great Hyperspace War Bas-Relief
6172

This Great Hyperspace War Bas-Relief was a Massassi frieze, excavated from an archaeological dig on Yavin 4. thumb|left|200px|A bas-relief in the Imperial Citadel on Dromund Kaas. In 3678 BBY, this art piece, or a similar rendering of it, was displayed along the wall of the Sith Emperor's chambers in the Dromund Kaas citadel in Kaas City. At some point by 19 BBY, it was found in an archaeological excavation of a Massassi site on Yavin 4. Chancellor Palpatine then put it on display in his suite. It depicted a battle which took place during the Great Hyperspace War, with Jedi and Sith clashing, alongside various war beasts. Jedi visitors to his office believed that it was a nod of respect towards their order, but it was actually a statement of Palpatine's belief in Sith superiority. By the aftermath of the Battle of Yavin, nineteen years after Palpatine declared himself Emperor, Palpatine's ownership of the bas-relief had spread via rumors. thumb|left|260px|The original concept art made for the frieze during production of Revenge of the Sith The day before the shooting of the scene in Palpatine's private office George Lucas decided to put an elaborated sculpture in the hallway. The frieze was drawn by design supervisor Erik Tiemens and sculpted by Richard Miller, depicting a legendary or historical battle between aliens and humans, with some of the aliens resembling "grays",Creating the Worlds of Star Wars: 365 Days the almond-eyed creatures of classic UFO lore. While during the time of development there wasn't much explanation of the frieze's meaning,Star Wars Insider 92 later Expanded Universe material identified it as a portrayal of the Great Hyperspace War between Jedi and Sith. Included in both versions of the piece is a female warrior curiously similar to concept art depicting a red-haired "Sith Witch," which was rejected as a villain in the prequel trilogy.The Art of Star Wars Episode I: The Phantom Menace Whether this was an intentional nod to the character is unknown. *The Old Republic, Blood of the Empire Act 1: Shades of the Sith *Star Wars: Complete Locations *Creating the Worlds of Star Wars: 365 Days *Star Wars Insider 92 *Star Wars: Beware the Sith Category:Art Category:Darth Sidious' collection