34911
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Crynyd
Crynyd
6411

The Crynyd was the name given to an Imperial II-class Star Destroyer after its capture by the New Republic at a battle in the Milagro system. In 5 ABY the Star Destroyer was commanded by the sadistic Captain Purdy M. Trico and was found amidst a battle in a star system when a New Republic gunboat seriously damaged its bow. With its task force consisting of about thirty support craft and transports, she hyperspaced to Milagro system for repairs. She arrived shortly after the main Imperial forces withdrew from the devastated world of Milagro. The dreadnaught New Hope, remained on-station as the New Republic's command ship in the area. As his ship was damaged, and the Dreadnaught had a strong hull, Trico ordered an attack with fighters, avoiding to reveal her location. However she was intercepted by Luke Skywalker's X-wing and the Moldy Crow piloted by Jan Ors. The two ships happened to exit hyperspace near her location, revealing it to Captain Tola, who commanded the battle from the New Hope; and Han Solo who led a group of squadron. The Destroyer's escorts had formed a protective screen around her, and its computer commanded the fire-control center of each one, maximizing their efficiency, but Skywalker, guided by Force, managed to lead their ships inside. Trico shot his XO for failing to monitor the dreadnaught's movements and, despite the crew's better judgment, ordered to break the formation in order to be able to shot at the annoying two ships, but it was then when Solo in the Millennium Falcon with his group attacked directly Trico's ship. For the next three hours The Destroyer received a lot of damage, the hull was breached and lost half of her laser batteries but Trico insisted in his stance, threatening any insubordination with death. When all was desperate, the weapons-control officer shot him in the head, and it took only two minutes to surrender unconditionally. The ship was renamed Crynyd after Rebel hero Arvel Crynyd, who had lost his life when his fighter crashed into the Executor bridge at the Battle of Endor. After refitting, the Crynyd was assigned to Solo Fleet in the hunt for Warlord Zsinj. During the attempt to trap the Iron Fist in the Battle of Vahaba, the Crynyd and the Skyhook defended the Imperial interdictor Stellar Web. Right after Zsinj's escape from Vahaba, the Crynyd participated in the battle with Zsinj's backup force at the Battle of Selaggis. In the battle, the Crynyd assisted in the capture of the Imperial I-class Star Destroyer Red Gauntlet. After the New Republic alliance with the Hapes Consortium, the Crynyd and numerous other Star Destroyers were destroyed while fighting High Admiral Treuten Teradoc's forces in a campaign after Zsinj's death. In the Dark Forces: Jedi Knight audio drama, the ship is stated to be a Victory-class Star Destroyer. *Dark Forces: Jedi Knight *Dark Forces: Jedi Knight audio drama *X-Wing: Solo Command *The Essential Chronology *The New Essential Chronology *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Captured starships Category:Imperial II-class Star Destroyers Category:Starships of the Galactic Empire Category:Starships of the New Republic