34954
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Coomb_spore
Coomb spore
2888

The coomb spore was a single species of microorganism engineered by the Yuuzhan Vong agent Nom Anor. Part of the executor's plan to ascend to the rank of high prefect, Nom Anor designed the coomb, brollup, tegnest, and more than a dozen other varieties of spore to be used as weapons capable of destroying the New Jedi Order. thumb|left|180px|Mara Jade fighting coomb spores. In normal beings, the spores broke down the victim's molecular structure and caused an agonizing death, usually within a few days. Of the first group that Nom Anor used the spores on, Mara Jade Skywalker was the only one who lived longer than a few weeks. The disease was non-communicable, as the coomb spores died along with the victim. Although an impressive range of species were known to have been vulnerable to its effects, with differing lengths of illness for each, it was not clear whether the Yuuzhan Vong themselves were susceptible to the toxin. The shlecho newt enjoyed eating coomb spores, and so could serve as a detector of them. Nom Anor used these spores several times. Mara Jade Skywalker, then a Jedi Master, managed to hold off the effects with her abilities, and was eventually temporarily healed by Vergere's tears, later completely with the help of her husband and son. Unfortunately for Nom Anor, the virus was non-communicable. The Yuuzhan Vong had planned to release the coomb spore into the galaxy to create a pandemic, but could not devise a way to make the spores self-replicating, thus making it impractical for large-scale usage. *The New Jedi Order: Vector Prime *Invasion 0 *Invasion 4 *The New Jedi Order: Balance Point *The New Jedi Order: Edge of Victory II: Rebirth *The New Jedi Order: Traitor *The New Jedi Order: Destiny's Way *The New Jedi Order: The Unifying Force *Star Wars Roleplaying Game Core Rulebook *Star Wars Roleplaying Game Revised Core Rulebook *The New Essential Chronology *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Spore weaponry Category:Yuuzhan Vong weapons