35047
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Long_Shot
Long Shot
5265

The Long Shot was a modified Lantillian ShipWrights GX1 short haulerThe Star Wars Rules Companion captained by the Ithorian Ixsthmus for several missions for the Alliance to Restore the Republic. His crew consisted of his Sullustan first mate Siene Symm and the droids R2-V0 and Four-Onebee. As of 0 ABY and 1 ABY the ship had already served the rebel Irregular unit Reekeene's Roughnecks for several years and some members of Green squad division of the Roughnecks often used the vessel as a mobile headquarter.Star Wars Campaign Pack The Long Shot was originally purchased as a pleasure yacht for an Imperial Admiral and later stolen from a Callonian spaceport by members of the rebel unit Reekeene's Roughnecks. After being acquired by the Roughnecks the ship recieved new Transponder codes, its sublight engines and shields were improved and the galley, holotheatre, starboard passenger pod, and geriatric suites were replaced by a supply room, machine shop, supply pod and brig respectively. Two illegal laser cannons were also added to the exterior of the ship. The Long Shot was sent to a diplomatic mission on the terrestrial planet of Abonshee to trade Alliance's doctors, teachers and engineers in exchange for supplies. While members of Green squad were on the planet negotiating with Abonshee's leader Godking Trisstan, the damaged Curich-class imperial shuttle Resurgence transporting Moff Dixton landed just outside of the Godking's castle. While the Long Shots Captain and first mate had to temporarily take the vessel off-planet to avoid the imperial shuttle's scanners, Green squad managed to capture Dixton and convince the Godking to join the Alliance.Classic Campaigns The Long Shot was sent to a mission on the volcanic planet Alabash, ferrying a squad of Reekeene's Roughnecks that would pretend to be inspectors from the Imperial Resource Procurement Bureau. The ship was refueled and resupplied, and her markings were changed to match the squad's cover. The Long Shot was later sent to the planet Iyuta when General Reekeene wanted a listening device to be placed on an Imperial communication center there. During a later long mission of surveillance near Iyuta, the crew of the Long Shot discovered that the Empire had captured General Reekeene and sent her to a garrison on Flankers, a planet that would be destroyed by a nova in a matter of days. Ixsthmus headed to Flankers. Once there, Imperial forces identified the Long Shot as an enemy ship and fired on it, while Symm tried to dodge the attacks and keep everybody informed of the countdown. At a later point, Reekeene's Rougnecks modified the Long Shot to increase the ship's sublight speed. The Long Shot first appeared in the Star Wars Campaign Pack as a sample ship for any party of player characters. *Otherspace *Otherspace II: Invasion *Star Wars Campaign Pack *The Star Wars Rules Companion *Classic Campaigns *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:GX1 short haulers Category:Starships of the Alliance to Restore the Republic