35075
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Fall_of_Desevro
Fall of Desevro
6420

The fall of the world Desevro occurred around 23,900 BBY, at the end of the century-long Tionese War between the Galactic Republic and the Honorable Union of Desevro & Tion. The Republic, radicalized by the fanatically persistent fighting of its Tionese enemy, carried out pressure bomb attacks against the Tion Cluster worlds. Desevro was the last to fall to the Republic after suffering extensive devastation and offered the unconditional surrender of the Honorable Union. thumb|right|200px|Desevro, the capital of the Honorable Union of Desevro & Tion For almost a century beginning in 24,000 BBY, the Galactic Republic and the Honorable Union of Desevro & Tion fought a conflict known as the Tionese War. The war saw powerful pressure bombs being dropped on both Coruscant and Desevro, the respective capitalThe New Essential Chronology worlds of the opposing sides. Eventually, the Tionese leaders felt that their peoples' culture faced extinction due to the technological superiority of the Republic as well as the threat posed by the Tion Cluster's neighboring Hutt Empire.The Essential Atlas As a result, the Tionese kept fanatically fighting on, subjecting Republic worlds and citizens to sneak attacks, raids, and terrorist acts. In response, the Republic also radicalized and adopted a strategy of total war, storming up the Perlemian Trade Route super-hyperroute and devastating several worlds in the Tion through the use of pressure bombs. Around 23,900 BBY, Desevro was also blasted by the Republic forces, in the process suffering extensive devastation. The planet was the last of the Tionese worlds to fall, finally offering the unconditional surrender of the Honorable Union. Initially, the military leaders of the Republic had decided to sterilize Desevro as an object lesson to the rest of the Tionese and so refused the surrender. The refusal, however, led the Jedi Order to break with the Republic. An organization of Force-sensitives who had pledged to protect the Republic and had entered the Tionese War as Republic commanders, the Order could not tolerate being party to the Republic's intended barbaric actions, and tense meetings were held above Desevro between the Jedi and the Republic leadership. thumb|left|280px|In the aftermath of Desevro's fall, the Jedi agreed to watch over the Tion Cluster from a series of fortress worlds along the area's Coreward borders. The Jedi ultimately agreed to monitor the Tion Cluster from an arc of Republic fortress worldsGeonosis and the Outer Rim Worlds situated along the Coreward borders of the cluster. The surrender of the Honorable Union of Desevro & Tion ended the Tionese War and led to the eventual incorporation of the Tion Cluster into Republic territory. Desevro's surrender also denied a young Republic soldier, who had enlisted with the Republic Military just four months earlier, the opportunity to avenge in battle the Tionese destruction of their home on Okator VIII. The fall of Desevro was first mentioned in the 2012 reference book The Essential Guide to Warfare, authored by Jason Fry and Paul R. Urquhart. *The Essential Guide to Warfare Category:Battles of Desevro Category:Battles of the Tionese War