35206
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Jar_Jar_Binks%27s_father
Jar Jar Binks's father
10908

establishes that Jar Jar Binks was an orphan by , which takes place in 32 BBY according to The New Essential Chronology. |species=GunganEpisode I Adventures 9: Rescue in the Core |gender=Male |pronouns= |height= |mass= |hair= |feathers= |eyes= |skin= |cyber= |families=Binks family |parents= |partners=Jar Jar Binks's mother |siblings= |children=Jar Jar Binks |affiliation= |masters= |apprentices= }} The father of the Otolla Gungan Jar Jar Binks was a Gungan male. Both of Binks' parents had died by 32 BBY. When Binks's clumsiness caused an accident, Boss Rugor Nass lessened his punishment out of respect for Binks's parents. The memory of his father saddened him. }} thumb|right|275px|George R. Binks sailing the sea George R. Binks was born in Otoh Gunga on the planet Naboo to a family of whalers. The Binks family had practiced the whaler profession for centuries, so as a mere youth, he commanded his own fishing gang in his hometown. At some point, he decided to join the family business, becoming a captain in the Binks & Son Whaling Company. In his capacity as a professional whaler, Binks often went on long sea voyages, even sailing across the entire planet of Naboo on more than one occasion. At one point, he fell in love with the warrior-woman Sheebla and planned on marrying her, but when he learned of Sheebla's infertility, Binks broke off his wedding plans and left her; to him, a child was more important than love. He eventually married another woman, not out of love, but because she had the ability to bear him an heir. The Gungan male's female partner had a son, Jar Jar Binks, who was born in 52 BBY.Star Wars: Episode I Insider's Guide states that Jar Jar Binks is twenty during the events of , which The New Essential Chronology dates to 32 BBY. Binks therefore must have been born in 52 BBY. Starting when his son was a child, Binks attempted to teach Jar Jar the whaler profession and involve him in the family company, but much to his chagrin, Jar Jar was uninterested and prone to clumsiness. As a result of these qualities, Binks began resenting his son. thumb|left|270px|George R. Binks's ship is assailed by a whale. At one point, on a whaling trip with his wife and son in the stormy southernmost seas of Naboo, Binks happened upon a large whale. His initial attempt at harpooning the creature was unsuccessful, and in the ensuing fight, wherein he ordered Jar Jar to keep the ship steady, the whale was caught in the rigging of Binks's ship. He issued a series of commands to Jar Jar to turn the wheel starboard and maneuver clear of the situation, but his son was unable to comply. As a result, the ship sank, and the Binks family was forced to seek refuge on a barren island. A month later, Binks and his family were still stranded on the island. He grew increasingly annoyed by his son's antics, including picking up a creature that painfully pinched the boy's face. Binks hoped that he would not put the creature in his mouth, and when he did, Binks grabbed his son's throat while seizing the creature and insulting Jar Jar. However, Bink's wife came to Jar Jar's defense, reprimanding Binks for taking his anger out on Jar Jar. She added that he never should have given Jar Jar control of the ship's wheel by himself in the first place, but Binks maintained that he had taken the wheel at Jar Jar's age. Bink's despair came to the point that when Jar Jar attempted to show him a supposed "sea serpent-tailbone" that he had found, Binks slapped the bone away, metaphorically considering the bones to be all of his ruined hopes, scattered across what he considered to be a "barren rock." Immediately after, Binks planted a white flag into the sand, naming the island "Binks's Woe." Jar Jar then offered to swim for help, claiming to be a good swimmer. Binks initially refused his offer, deeming it a suicidal task to swim in the treacherous waters. Upon realizing that he could get rid of his son in this manner, Binks encouraged the boy's offer, preparing to toss him into the sea to get him started. However, Binks's attempt at getting Jar Jar killed was cut short when his wife intervened. Just as Binks began sobbing and sat upon the sand, he noticed his son blow into a shell and reached the height of his despair. As a tear dripped from his eye, he drew a gun and turned it on himself. His wife tried to stop him but only ended up encouraging him into pulling the trigger by telling him to think of their son. The bolt grazed his skull, knocking him unconscious. As he lay there, he reminisced about his love, Sheebla. As he imagined seeing Sheebla standing before him, his hallucination cleared to reveal that it was none other than Jar Jar running on the sand with an octopus wrapped around his head. Binks's only response was to lower his head in sadness. Jar Jar was eventually expelled from all schools in Otoh Gunga and was unable to turn to his parents for guidance; as such, he was forced to take on many odd jobs during his youth.The New Essential Guide to Characters By 32 BBY, both of Binks' parents had died. Also by that year,Episode I Adventures 9: Rescue in the Core takes place prior to the events of , which The New Essential Chronology dates to 32 BBY. Jar Jar was punished by Boss Rugor Nass for an accident that had been caused by Jar Jar's clumsiness; if not for Nass's respect for his parents, the punishment would have been more severe. The mention of his mother and father saddened Jar Jar, but he was thankful that he would not receive a beating. George R. Binks took great pride in his whaling profession, as well as in his family. He was so concerned with securing a male heir to the Binks name that he left the woman he loved because she was infertile. When he finally received a son, Jar Jar, he worked hard to teach the youngster the whaling profession. His son's repeated failures at living up to his expectations became a source of discontent for Binks. His seemingly incompetent son caused him to grow violent and angry, culminating in an unsuccessful attempt at killing himself. He had light brown skin. George R. Binks was an experienced whaler and mariner. Binks wore a green jacket, a white shirt, tan pants, and a black belt. He used a gun and a whaling ship. The father of Jar Jar Binks was first mentioned in the 2000 junior novel Episode I Adventures 9: Rescue in the Core, written by Ryder Windham as part of the Star Wars: Episode I Adventures series. The name George R. Binks was created and illustrated by Tony Millionaire as the main character of the comic story "George R. Binks," which was ambiguously canonical with respect to the Star Wars Legends continuity and was published in Star Wars Tales twentieth issue on June 30, 2004. *Episode I Adventures 9: Rescue in the Core *The New Essential Guide to Characters *Star Wars: The Comics Companion Category:Gungans Category:Individuals with unspecified pronouns Category:Males Category:Naboo residents