35233
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/The_Saga_Begins_(song)
The Saga Begins (song)
9889

}} "The Saga Begins" is a parody of the Don McLean song "American Pie" that tells the story of The Phantom Menace from Obi-Wan Kenobi's point of view. The song is sung by "Weird Al" Yankovic and appears among the bonus features on the 2011 Blu-ray release of the complete saga, and on the Radio Disney Jams, Vol. 2 CD. Among Star Wars fans, Yankovic is also known for his Star Wars&ndash;themed song parody "Yoda," as well as a scene in the video of his hit single "White & Nerdy" that shows him making a back-alley purchase of a bootlegged VHS of The Star Wars Holiday Special. "The Saga Begins" was recorded on April 20, 1999 by Volcano Records and was released on the album Running with Scissors on June 27, 1999. After getting Don McLean's permission to parody "American Pie" in 1998, Al began composing the song, given the lead time involving in creating albums forced the song to be ready by March 1999&mdash;two months before The Phantom Menace release. Lucasfilm declined Yankovic a look at the script due to the high secrecy of the film, so the musician had to search "all the leaked info I could about the movie from all the various Star Wars websites (TheForce.net was particularly helpful), and was able to piece together the basic plot of the movie." The final mix of the song was held until after Yankovic had seen an advance charity screening of the film. A long, long time ago In a galaxy far away Naboo was under an attack And I thought me and Qui-Gon Jinn Could talk the Federation into Maybe cutting them a little slack But their response, it didn't thrill us They locked the doors and tried to kill us We escaped from that gas And met Jar Jar and Boss Nass We took a bongo from the scene And we went to Theed to see the Queen We all wound up on Tatooine That's where we found this boy Oh my, my, this here Anakin guy May be Vader someday later, now he's just a small fry And he left his home and kissed his mommy goodbye Sayin', "Soon I'm gonna be a Jedi" "Soon I'm gonna be a Jedi" Did you know this junkyard slave Isn't even old enough to shave? But he can use the Force, they say Ah, do you see him hitting on the queen Though he's just nine and she's fourteen? Yeah, he's probably gonna marry her someday Well, I know he built C-3PO And I've heard how fast his pod can go And we were broke, it's true So we made a wager or two Ooh, he was a prepubescent flyin' ace And the minute Jabba started off that race Well, I knew who would win first place Oh yes, it was our boy We started singin' My, my, this here Anakin guy May be Vader someday later, now he's just a small fry And he left his home and kissed his mommy goodbye Sayin', "Soon I'm gonna be a Jedi" "Soon I'm gonna be a Jedi" Now we finally got to Coruscant The Jedi Council we knew would want To see how good the boy could be So we took him there and we told the tale How his midi-chlorians were off the scale And he might fulfill that prophecy Oh, the Council was impressed, of course Could he bring balance to the Force? They interviewed the kid Oh, training they forbid Because Yoda sensed in him much fear And Qui-Gon said, "Now, listen here Just stick it in your pointy ear I still will teach this boy" He was singin' My, my, this here Anakin guy May be Vader someday later, now he's just a small fry And he left his home and kissed his mommy goodbye Sayin', "Soon I'm gonna be a Jedi" "Soon I'm gonna be a Jedi" We caught a ride back to Naboo Cause Queen Amidala wanted to I frankly would've liked to stay We all fought in that epic war And it wasn't long at all before Little hotshot flew his plane and saved the day And in the end, some Gungans died Some ships blew up and some pilots fried A lot of folks were croakin' The battle droids were broken And the Jedi I admire most Met up with Darth Maul and now he's toast But I'm still here and he's a ghost I guess I'll train this boy And I was singin' My, my, this here Anakin guy May be Vader someday later, now he's just a small fry And he left his home and kissed his mommy goodbye Sayin', "Soon I'm gonna be a Jedi" "Soon I'm gonna be a Jedi" We were singin' My, my, this here Anakin guy May be Vader someday later, now he's just a small fry And he left his home and kissed his mommy goodbye Sayin', "Soon I'm gonna be a Jedi" The lyrics are surprisingly accurate even though the song was released before the movie. According to Yankovic, everything was gleaned through Internet spoilers. Yankovic paid $500 to view an advance screening after writing the song, but most of his lyrics were correct, so he made minor changes; the only major change he had to make after the screening of The Phantom Menace was that Anakin did not tell Amidala that he was going to marry her, like Yankovic originally thought. The main inaccuracy is that Obi-Wan stayed at the queen's royal starship after their arrival on Tatooine, rather than going with Qui-Gon and Padmé to search for a new part for the ship. Thus, he didn't witness the podrace firsthand, and didn't meet Anakin until he arrived at the starship with the rest of the group. thumb|200px|A group of Als at the end of the video The video begins in a desert, supposedly on the planet Tatooine. Yankovic, dressed like Ewan McGregor's Kenobi, walks until he finds Darth Sidious playing the piano. Yankovic uses the Force to pick up a steel guitar, and in the second verse he reappears performing in a Mos Eisley cantina look-alike where he leads a band likewise dressed as Jedi. In the last verse, he returns to the desert, and in the last chorus, an entire crowd of "Obi-Wans" is shown singing, a possible reference to the Clone Wars that follow. Various Star Wars characters can be seen, such as Yoda, Amidala and Mace Windu, dancing strangely, although Yoda does not move. The upper half of the pianist's face is always covered by the hood of the robe that he is wearing much like the Sith Lord Darth Sidious. When asked why, Al stated that "They didn't want to scare small children," a reference to the playful bullying of Al's pianist, Rubén Valtierra, commonly used in his live shows. *Star Wars Insider 69 thumb|250px|The [[Star Wars: The Official Magazine 44|44th issue of Star Wars: The Official Magazine referenced his song title "I Think I'm a Clone Now," though the song itself is not about Star Wars.]] *The Weird Al Wiki Category:Musical pieces Category:Parodies