35491
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Mission_to_Ord_Mantell_(Dash_Rendar)
Mission to Ord Mantell (Dash Rendar)
6519

The Second Mission to Ord Mantell was an operation conducted by Dash Rendar, who was sent by the Rebel Alliance to seek out IG-88D, one of four IG-88 assassin droids. His objective was to interrogate the droid about the whereabouts of Boba Fett, a Mandalorian bounty hunter who was holding Han Solo, one of Rendar's friends and key Rebel, hostage in carbonite. IG-88D was engaged in an aerial battle with Boba Fett over Tatooine. After the rough skirmish, the IG-2000 was caught in a barrage of fire from the Slave I. With that, IG-88D managed to limp off to Ord Mantell to search for spare parts for his ship in the planet's scrapyard. Knowing IG-88 would know information on Fett's location, Rendar gathered information on the skirmish and tracked IG-88 to Ord Mantell, where he landed the Outrider in the scrapyard. IG-88 was in the main salvage plant, and he sealed the gate. LE-BO2D9, Rendar's assistant droid also known as Leebo, programmed a hovertrain to kamikaze with the plant, allowing Rendar access. The assassin droid was prepared, though, and set up defenses along the hover train tracks consisting of mercenaries, airspeeders, drones, and dogbots. They proved defenseless to Rendar, who broke through the resistance and boarded the train on course with the processing plant. After a quick discussion with IG-88, information was gathered that Fett was on Gall, and the assassin droid opened fire. IG-88 was blasted after a long, hard skirmish, and his inoperative droid shell fell to the ground. The Mission is described in a story outline from April 17, 1995. Ord Mantell was chosen after its mention in , where Han Solo mentioned an encounter with bounty hunters. According to the game designers, Dash Rendar, who moves in similar circles as Han Solo, would seek other "shady characters" for information.The Secrets of Star Wars: Shadows of the Empire Paul Topolos made concept sketches for the salvage factory. *Star Wars: Shadows of the Empire video game *Shadows of the Empire Sourcebook |cards= }} *Star Wars: Shadows of the Empire Limited Collector's Edition Category:Battles of Ord Mantell Category:Events of the Galactic Civil War