35440
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Renegade_Flight
Renegade Flight
6984

Renegade Flight was a Rebel Alliance X-wing starfighter unit under the leadership of Commander Arhul Narra. It was assigned to the Alliance High Command Headquarters before its destruction in 3 ABY at the Battle of Derra IV. thumb|left|250px|Narra and a Renegade Flight pilot in an Imperial ambush over Derra IV Renegade Flight was one of the oldest fighter groups in the Alliance, with a service history dating back before the Battle of Yavin. It was named for the Incom Corporation design team that defected to the Alliance early in the Galactic Civil War. Military lore had it that one of Renegade Flight's fighters dated back to the original X-wing prototypes. Renegade Flight was led by Commander Arhul Narra, a veteran pilot nicknamed "Boss" by other members of the squadron. The squadron was key to the early Alliance victory at the Battle of Ton-Falk, exploiting an ingeniously simple tactic suggested by Renegade Leader Narra's protocol droid K-3PO to destroy two Imperial frigates and a dreadnaught. Following the Battle of Yavin, Renegade Flight was integrated into Red Squadron, which was reconstituted as a pair of flights, Narra's Renegades and Luke Skywalker's Rogue Flight. Narra and Renegade Flight were assigned to the Alliance High Command group, tasked with protecting the Alliance transport convoys that supplied High Command's constantly moving headquarters. Before the Battle of Hoth in 3 ABY,The New Essential Chronology Renegade Flight was escorting a supply convoy to Echo Base when the convoy was ambushed in orbit over Derra IV by an Imperial force led by the 181st Imperial Fighter Wing attached to an Ton-Falk-class escort carrier. All the Rebel transports were destroyed and every member of Renegade Flight, including Ketku and "Renegade Three," was killed. Ironically, the capital ship design that launched the fighters that destroyed Renegade Flight was developed as a result of the Renegades' victory at Ton-Falk. A plaque commemorating the lost pilots hung on the command deck of the Rebel frigate, Chancellor, while Skywalker and Wedge Antilles expanded Rogue Flight to a full squadron to fill the gap left by the loss of the Renegades. The Star Wars Encyclopedia and Who's Who in Rogue Squadron place Commander Narra and Renegade Flight at the Battle of Yavin. Lucasfilm's Leland Chee has since confirmed this as an error on the StarWars.com forums. *X-Wing Rogue Squadron 25 *A Guide to the Star Wars Universe *The Empire Strikes Back: The National Public Radio Dramatization *Galaxy Guide 3: The Empire Strikes Back, Second Edition *Star Wars Trilogy Sourcebook, Special Edition *Star Wars Encyclopedia *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia *The Essential Atlas *The Essential Guide to Warfare |cards= }} Category:Alliance to Restore the Republic starfighter squadrons Category:Red Squadron personnel