35623
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Foray-class_blockade_runner
Foray-class blockade runner
4997

Foray-class blockade runners were capital ships used by the Republic Navy during the Mandalorian Wars (c. 3964 BBY),Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic: Days of Fear the Jedi Civil War, and afterwards.Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic II: The Sith Lords thumb|left|180px|Foray-class blockade runners and Hammerhead cruisers in formation. Like the Corellian Engineering Corporation warships of the Republic's later years, these vessels had long, slender hulls capped at the stern with large thrusters. The blockade runners were armed with turreted guns positioned on each side of the ship's bow and point-defense guns lining the main superstructure. The command area was located on the ventral side of the ship. The Foray-class's original purpose was to safeguard the Republic Navy's reach by being mass-produced to the point of filling up the trade routes, but the ship gained new mission uses during the Mandalorian Wars. It assisted Republic troops and civilians caught behind enemy lines, and aided besieged Republic worlds by supplying them while under fire. The ships could also be used to secretly land commandos. The Foray-class was one of the two main capital ship classes upon which the Republic fleet depended&mdash;along with the Hammerhead-class cruiser&mdash;after most of the larger warships were stolen by fallen Jedi, Darth Revan and Darth Malak, shortly after the Battle of Malachor V. Many ships of this class were also used to defend Citadel Station, in orbit around Telos IV, against a Sith attack led by Darth Nihilus and the Ravager. *Knights of the Old Republic 13 *Knights of the Old Republic 14 *Knights of the Old Republic 15 *Knights of the Old Republic 21 *Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic *Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic II: The Sith Lords *Knights of the Old Republic Campaign Guide Category:Frigate classes Category:Republic Fleet Systems products Category:Starship classes of the Galactic Republic