35707
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Brotherhood_of_the_Sith
Brotherhood of the Sith
14399

The Brotherhood of the Sith or Sith Brotherhood was a group of Jedi Knights led by Dark Lord of the Sith Exar Kun who broke away from the Jedi Order to study Sith techniques. During the Great Sith War, they created a Sith Empire that received the allegiance of the Krath and the Mandalorian Crusaders led by Mandalore the Indomitable. In an impassioned speech on Ossus, Exar Kun, Dark Lord of the Sith, sowed the first seeds of doubt in his fellow Jedi Knights. After the death of Arca Jeth on Deneba, many Knights had become disillusioned with the Order, losing their idealistic ideas of the immortality of the Jedi. Fearing for the safety of the future, several Jedi Knights were swayed by Exar Kun's promise of further "lost" Jedi powers. thumb|left|200px|Exar Kun killing Odan-Urr to procure the Sith holocron in Urr's possession. Unfortunately for the young Knights, Exar Kun was not concerned for the future of the Order and had come to Ossus in hopes of creating a powerful rank of commanders for his impending war with the Republic. Kun's trip to Ossus had two objectives. Besides recruitment, Kun was eager to lay his hands on the famed Sith holocron of Odan-Urr. Breaking his way into Odan-Urr's chamber, Kun slew the aged Jedi Master and claimed the ancient holocron for himself. Caught in the act of removing the artifact, Kun lied to his new followers, claiming that Odan-Urr had declared him a Jedi Master and bequeathed the artifact to him as a symbol of the induction as he died of old age. With the increasing awe of his fellow Knights, Kun loaded his ship, the Starstorm One with his twenty knights and left for Yavin 4, a place of dark side power.Tales of the Jedi – The Sith War 2 Before Kun's speech on Ossus, Exar had already visited Yavin 4 and enslaved the Massassi that lived there. Investigating the ruins on the planet and excavating the area revealed the last resting place ofTales of the Jedi – Dark Lords of the Sith 5 the Dark Lord of the SithTales of the Jedi – The Golden Age of the Sith 4 Naga Sadow. Using the labor of the Massassi, Kun created a myriad of temples on the planet to amplify his own force power. It was to this environment that Kun and his followers arrived. Arriving on Yavin 4, the twenty knights fanned out, becoming increasingly disturbed by the dark presence that they felt on the planet. Leading the company to the main Sith Temple, Exar proclaimed a new time for the Jedi Knights, one in which forgotten techniques would be rediscovered. One Jedi Knight in particular was thoroughly disgusted with Kun's blindness to the apparent dark feeling that he gleaned off the planet's surface. Oss Wilum distanced himself from the other admiring followers and made to leave the planet, but was abruptly stopped by Massassi. The other Knights rushed to his aid and it seemed that the Brotherhood would be disbanded before it even began to take form. With some quick thinking, Kun salvaged the situation. Deceiving his followers once again, Kun stopped the attack declaring that he knew of the dark power emanating from the planet and needed the other Knights help in cleansing the world of the dark side. thumb|right|200px|Kun shatters the Sith holocron, releasing the Sith spirits trapped within, who quickly corrupt the witnessing Jedi. Knowing that Oss Wilum's outburst was not likely to be an isolated event, Exar quickly accelerated the indoctrination. Using the Sith holocron that he had taken from Odan-Urr, Exar Kun smashed the artifact declaring that he was doing so to rid it of dark influence. In reality, the action released the dormant teachings of the Sith Lords within. The crystals from the smashed device embedded themselves in Kun's followers. Acting as a type of Sith poison, the Knights' emotions became completely muddled and their reservations about Kun and the dark planet melted away. The Brotherhood was born. thumb|left|150px|A Brotherhood member murders his former Jedi master. After continued training on Yavin IV, Exar's Sith Order had completely embraced their new training. Exar had no doubt as to their abilities and was ready to make his move. To the approval of his Sith brethren, Exar declared the Jedi Masters heretics that refused to see the truth of the new way. Before the Sith Golden Age could come, the old had to be removed. Exar sent his Sith disciples on their first mission, to exterminate their own Jedi Masters. The uprising was a huge victory for the Brotherhood and their rising Sith Empire. Almost every one of Kun's disciples was successful in their mission, catching their master's by surprise with the new Sith techniques taught to them by Exar. However, several masters were adept enough to recognize the corruption within their students and were ready. Master Thon fended off both Oss Wilum and Crado when they used the Force to call vicious Hssiss dragons upon the Tchuukthai Master. Crado was able to escape, but Oss was captured. Zona Luka was able to kill Master Dominus but was also killed in the attempt.Tales of the Jedi – The Sith War 4 Nayama was unable to kill her master Jolee Bindo in a confrontation, and fled in disgrace.Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic With the leadership of the Jedi in disarray, Exar made his next move against the Republic. Determined to utterly shatter the Jedi Order, Exar planned to destroy the Jedi Library on Ossus. Uniting with his apprentice Ulic Qel-Droma, Exar learned of the treachery of Ulic's illicit lover Aleema Keto. Exar devised a plan to rid themselves of the nuisance and to ensure the end of the Jedi. Using the treacherous Aleema and the cowardly Crado to set off a supernova in the Cron Drift, Exar ensured the doom of Ossus. Both Aleema and Crado were killed by the supernova for their failings. thumb|right|150px|The Jedi direct a wall of light at Yavin IV, containing Exar Kun's malevolent spirit. As the Jedi tried to evacuate Ossus, Exar, Ulic, and the rest of the Brotherhood landed on Ossus to steal as many of the Jedi artifacts as they could. The raid was highly successful, but met a huge setback when Ulic was shot down by his brother CayTales of the Jedi – The Sith War 5 and captured. With Ulic's capture, Exar retreated to Yavin IV with the Jedi hot on his heels. With a wall of light directed at the planet, the entire planet was enveloped in fire. Exar was presumed killed by the fires and the war was considered over. The Sith Academy established by the Brotherhood of the SithThe Essential Atlas remained open after the Great Sith War. The academy would be an integral part of the Jedi Civil War when the new Dark Lords of the Sith, Darths Revan and Malak, needed a ready supply of Sith disciples for their own Sith Empire. There are several other Jedi pictured in training at Yavin IV, but they are unnamed at this time. The video game Knights of the Old Republic introduced the Rodian, Suvam Tan who claims to have been a Sith slave on Yavin IV. However, throughout the comic, no slaves other than Massassi are seen on the planet. It is also known that Suvam constructed a lightsaber and was the owner of a Sith holocron and Exar Kun's armor at the time of his death. Because of these possessions, it can be inferred that Suvam was probably a part of the Brotherhood. However, once again, there is no hard evidence. *Tales of the Jedi – Dark Lords of the Sith 6 *Tales of the Jedi – The Sith War 1 *Tales of the Jedi – The Sith War 2 *Tales of the Jedi – The Sith War 3 *Tales of the Jedi – The Sith War 4 *Tales of the Jedi – The Sith War 5 *Tales of the Jedi – The Sith War 6 *Knights of the Old Republic 33 *Knights of the Old Republic 38 *Knights of the Old Republic 47 *Knights of the Old Republic 48 *Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic *Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic II: The Sith Lords *Star Wars: The Old Republic *Darth Plagueis *Republic Commando: Triple Zero *The Wrath of Darth Maul *The Life and Legend of Obi-Wan Kenobi *Dark Apprentice *Champions of the Force *The Jedi Academy Sourcebook *Tales of the Jedi Companion *The Essential Chronology *The Dark Side Sourcebook *The New Essential Guide to Characters *Power of the Jedi Sourcebook *The New Essential Chronology *Jedi vs. Sith: The Essential Guide to the Force *Knights of the Old Republic Campaign Guide *Jedi Academy Training Manual *The Essential Atlas *Star Wars: The Ultimate Visual Guide: Updated and Expanded Category:Sith Empire (Exar Kun) Category:Sith organizations