35853
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Miktha
Miktha
7395

Miktha was a male Jawa criminal who lived on the planet Tatooine during the final decades of the Galactic Republic. He joined the gang of the gunslinger Longo Two-Guns when they arrived on Tatooine and managed to bolster their numbers with local muscle. When the gang became rivals of the Hutt Crime lord Jabba Desilijic Tiure, Miktha attempted to assassinate him at a Podracing event but was unsuccessful. The Hutt then placed a bounty on the Jawa's head, which the Mandalorian bounty hunter Jango Fett claimed in 32 BBY, capturing Miktha alive. The Jawa Miktha worked as a criminal on the planet Tatooine during the final years of the Galactic Republic. When the Clantaani gunslinger Longo Two-Guns arrived on Tatooine with his gang looking to carved out a niche, he quickly made contact with Miktha. The Jawa then introduced the gang leader to the Trandoshan Frossk and two Nikto, Ona Kragg and Naktu Jeera. The three agreed to join with Two-guns, and each brought additional men of their own to boost the groups size. With his newly expanded gang, Longo and his associates, including Miktha, took over the settlement of Mos Gamos, where they established a base of operations within an old podracer warehouse. The group then began to take over local criminal operations and quickly clashed with Jabba Desilijic Tiure, a Hutt crime lord also based on the planet. The group soon allied with Jabba's rival, Gardulla Besadii the Elder in a death stick distribution deal and began targeting Jabba in some of their operations. In 31 BBY Miktha and another gang member, Radd Hardwikk, attempted to assassinate their Hutt enemy by distributing explosive chubas at the Boonta Eve Classic podracing event he attended in the Mos Eisley spaceport. The plan however was unsuccessful, with the chubas not killing Jabba, but causing a small riot instead and reducing the profits made from foodstuff sales at the event. For inciting the riot the Hutt placed a bounty on Miktha's head, offering 100 credits for his capture alive, or fifty credits for his death. The bounty gave the Jawa's last known location as the peripheral region of Mos Eisley and claimed he was affiliated with other Jawas, whom Jabba considered scum. thumb|left|150px|Miktha was captured by Jango Fett. The Following year, the Mandalorian bounty hunter Jango Fett traveled to Tatooine whilst pursuing leads on the Bando Gora cult, which suggested Gardulla worked with them. Once on Tatooine he set out to claim a bounty Jabba had placed on Two-guns head, travelling to Mos Gamos and fighting through the Clantaani gang protecting him. Whilst making his way through the settlement, Fett encounter Miktha, who was unarmed, and captured him alive. The bounty hunter then went on to capture or kill several other gang members with bountys, including Two-guns himself, delivering those captured alive to Jabba once he left Mos Gamos. By the time Longo Two-guns arrived on Tatooine, Miktha had enough of a reputation as a criminal for the Clantaani to approach him and allow him into his gang. Miktha also managed to introduce Two-Guns to a number of other local thugs who joined up with him. When first approached by Fett Miktha did not attempt to flee, however once blaster fire began to be exchanged between Fett and other members of Two-guns gang the Jawa cowered in fear. He had yellow eyes. Miktha made used of explosive chubas during his attempt on Jabba's life, but when Fett encountered him he was unarmed. Like most Jawas, Miktha wore brown robes. Miktha first appeared in the video game Star Wars: Bounty Hunter which was released by LucasArts in 2002. In the game Miktha was an optional secondary bounty players could choose to capture dead or alive in the second stage of the fifth level of the game. He later received an entry in The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia released in 2009 and was mentioned in the first part of So Uncivilized: Great Gunslingers in Star Wars, an article released on the StarWars.com blog in 2013. The article confirmed that Fett claimed all the bounties available in Longo's gang including Miktha, and captured them dead or alive based on which state was worth more. As Miktha was worth fifty credits more alive than dead Fett captured him alive. *Star Wars: Bounty Hunter *Star Wars: Bounty Hunter: Prima's Official Strategy Guide *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Criminals Category:Jawas Category:Males Category:Tatooinians