35862
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Supreme_Chancellor_election,_40_BBY
Supreme Chancellor election, 40 BBY
8602

The Galactic Republic Senate held an election for the role of Supreme Chancellor in 40 BBY. Finis Valorum was the successful candidate, having risen to prominence through his actions in the Stark Hyperspace War, he won through the recognition of his family's political legacy and the backing of influential families such as the Tarkins and the Kalpanas. Valorum later won re-election in 36 BBY, but was removed from office in a Vote of No Confidence near the end of his second term. The Galactic Republic held its election for the office of Supreme Chancellor in the year 40 BBY. Prior to the election, Kalpana had served as Chancellor. thumb|right|250px|Finis Valorum, the successful candidate of the election Finis Valorum of the House Valorum political dynasty&mdash;which had included three previous Supreme Chancellors of the Galactic RepublicDarth Plagueis&mdash;began his political career in his late thirties, and by 52 BBY,According to , Valorum was working as a senator approximately thirty years before the Clone Wars, which began in 22 BBY according to The New Essential Chronology. Therefore, Valorum must have become a senator by around 52 BBY. had become senator of the Lytton sector. He ascended quickly through the Galactic Senate's hierarchy and earned the attention of political pundits through his actions during the Stark Hyperspace War of 44 BBY, during which he acted as a negotiator and convinced the Senate to resist conceding to the demands of the pirate Iaco Stark. To win the election, Valorum received the support of the wealthy and influential Tarkin family of the planet Eriadu. Ranulph Tarkin, Valorum's former political adversary, had intentionally sacrificed himself on the planet Troiken for his own glory at the end of the Hyperspace War. The Tarkin family gave Valorum their support on the condition that he decorate Ranulph as the "Hero of Troiken." Valorum also made deals with the Kalpana family. Valorum won the election, although his victory was described as shallow and cynical. His allies only supported Valorum because he was considered the best prospect out of an unremarkable pool of candidates. The Republic population only knew of Valorum because of his famous surname and none of his other attributes. Valorum believed that his position was secure at the time of his election. The Sith Lord Darth Plagueis believed that the return of a Valorum to the Chancery was a positive sign for the Sith Grand Plan. His apprentice, Darth Sidious, who was publicly only known as Senator Palpatine of the planet Naboo, believed that Valorum's election had more to do with his family legacy and the support of influential families than his own diplomatic skill. This sentiment was echoed by Valorum's enemies. As the new Chancellor, Valorum declared Ranulph Tarkin posthumously as the "Hero of Troiken," which won further backing for Tarkin's ideology of militarism, which advocated for the creation of a Republic Grand Army.The Essential Atlas The election was supposed to be the pinnacle of Valorum's political success,Star Wars: Episode I Insider's Guide yet he found his time in office beset with obstacles. Valorum won re-election again in 36 BBY by a slim margin. Near the end of his second term in 32 BBY, Valorum was ousted from office through a Vote of No Confidence engineered by Palpatine, who succeeded Valorum as Chancellor. In 30 BBY, the Tarkin family's role in electing Valorum was mentioned by Stark Hyperspace War veteran Jace Dallin in a recounting of the war to the Jedi Padawan Aayla Secura. Finis Valorum's successful election as Supreme Chancellor was first mentioned in the 1999 LucasArts CD-ROM Star Wars: Episode I Insider's Guide.Star Wars: Episode I Insider's Guide *Darth Plagueis *Star Wars (1998) 39 *Star Wars: Episode I Insider's Guide *The New Essential Guide to Characters *The New Essential Chronology *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia *The Essential Atlas Category:Supreme Chancellor elections