36004
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Wookiee_medical_droid
Wookiee medical droid
5620

Wookiee medical droids were a model of class one droid medical droids built by Wookiees. Wookiee medical droids were Class one droids built by members of the Wookiee species. They had a wide wheeled base, with a central tube connecting their lower body to their upper body and two further tubes running from their back to their base. The droid's upper body had two arms and a head on their upper body. A Wookiee medical droid was built on the moon Alaris Prime between 39 BBY and 36 BBY,The war for Alaris Prime as portrayed in Star Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds, was placed between 39 BBY and 36 BBY by The New Essential Chronology. during a war there between the Wookiee colonists and the Trade Federation. The Wookiee Chieftain Attichitcuk had been ambushed by the Trade Federation Droid Army and left for dead. The Wookiee's advisor, Jedi Master Qui-Gon Jinn, cautioned Attichitcuk's son, Chewbacca, to stay calm as they could create a Wookiee medical droid to save him. The Wookiees built the medical droid at their command center, and left their base to save the cheiftain after ten bowcaster troopers had been trained.Star Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds: Prima's Official Strategy Guide The Wookiees fought through several Battle Droid Beta Versions on their way to Attichitcuk, where the medical droid was able to revive the chieftain to the point that he could walk again. Jinn advised the Wookiees that their medical droid could heal them in between lightfights. The Wookiees successfully escorted Attichituck back to their base in spite of further Trade Federation attacks. Wookiee medical droids were later used during the Liberation of Kashyyyk in 4 ABY. Wookiee medical droids were first mentioned in Star Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds: Prima's Official Strategy Guide by Steven L. Kent,Star Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds: Prima's Official Strategy Guide&mdash;released on November 7, 2001&mdash;before appearing in the LucasArts video game Star Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds, released on November 11, 2001. *Star Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds *Star Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds: Clone Campaigns *Star Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds: Prima's Official Strategy Guide Category:Droid models of the Alliance to Restore the Republic Category:Medical droid models Category:Wookiee culture