36201
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/T-4_(vehicle)
T-4 (vehicle)
5697

The T-4 model was a ground transport vehicle used by the Imperial military. It had an open cab, windshield to protect the pilot and it was lightly armored at the side. It was powered by four repulsorlifts; once activated, it produced a hum combined by the different sounds of the power plants. With a five-ton payload, it was used to carry both equipment and troops. While empty it was capable of eighty kilometers per hour.Dark Forces: Rebel Agent All T-4s, like most Imperial military vehicles, were locked with a keypad tuned to a four-digit code; the factory setting was 0000.Dark Forces: Rebel Agent audio drama The dashboard controls included a keypad for the code, and four on/off switches for engine selection and a starter button. Secondary controls could be activated for the co-pilot. It featured the common buttons, switches and pedals found in other vehicles around the galaxy, such as combines. There were also side mirrors for rear view. Some models used by the Empire featured a rear mounted double-barreled energy cannon, inside a lightly armored tub behind the cab. The turret had a saddle for the gunner, handlebar controls with firing studs at the thumb positions and sights. There was a safety and a "live fire" switch. Cadets at the Imperial Academy were certified in T-4 use during their second year, including learning the default security code to activate the vehicle. Most company commanders kept it that way, as it was easier than ensuring that all soldiers memorize a new code. During the year 5 ABY, a T-4 was stationed at the vehicle park near the Katarn estate on the moon Sulon, while Jerec's Imperial forces had secured the vicinity. That vehicle was right above a maintainance hatch of the farm's irrigation system from which Kyle Katarn and WeeGee emerged trying to escape the Imperial forces and Grave Tusken mercenaries. Kyle activated it and with it they tried to get away from the area and reach Baron's Hed. A pursuit with Speeder bikes followed and Katarn made use of the turret to fend off the Tusken swoop gang. Bordo with other Turkens managed to board it, right before it was destroyed when it slammed into an Imperial roadblock; the resulting explosion killed the Tuskens, a platoon of Stormtroopers, threw an AT-ST off the bridge, and raised a wall of fire, into which the Tuskens who moved too fast blew up. However the Moldy Crow managed to save Kyle and his droid in time. During the year 10 ABYThe New Essential Chronology dates the events of Jedi Knight to 5 ABY. According to the opening scrawl, Star Wars: Jedi Knight: Mysteries of the Sith takes place five standard years after the events of Star Wars: Jedi Knight: Dark Forces II, therefore 10 ABY. a T-4 was stationed in the Katraasii Spaceport. In her attempt to catch Abron Mar, Mara Jade was blocked by a bulkhead door of a small speeder bay Mar was hiding, and she utilized the T-4 to break through.Star Wars: Jedi Knight: Mysteries of the Sith *Dark Forces: Rebel Agent *Dark Forces: Rebel Agent audio drama *Star Wars: Jedi Knight: Dark Forces II *Star Wars: Jedi Knight: Mysteries of the Sith *Star Wars: Jedi Knight: Dark Forces II: The Official Strategy Guide Category:Repulsorcraft troop transport classes Category:Vehicle classes of the Galactic Empire