36221
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Assault_on_Kile_II
Assault on Kile II
9892

The Assault on Kile II was a battle during the Galactic Civil War, in 1 ABY. The battle, an attack on the Imperial Enclave on Kile II by Rogue Squadron, was another operation engineered by Kasan Moor, a former Imperial pilot who defected to the Rebellion during the Liberation of Gerrard V. The pilots of Rogue Squadron, led by Commander Luke Skywalker, the famous pilot who destroyed the Empire's Death Star I, flew Y-wing starfighters outfitted with twenty proton bombs each. The bombing runs were aimed towards three major sectors of the Empire's base: a spaceport city, stormtrooper barracks, and a sensor array. The Empire suffered heavy casualties during the assault, and their influence over the local sector was diminished. Only two rebel pilots were gunned down. The fleeing Imperial forces captured one of the downed pilots, Wedge Antilles, and brought him in tow off the planet, shipping him to the Imperial prison colonies on Kessel. As Antilles was considered to be one of the squadron's most valuable pilots, and a close friend of Commander Skywalker, an attack on Kessel was later launched, aimed at freeing Antilles and other prisoners of war. Following the Battle of Corellia, during which a high ranking Imperial officer, Crix Madine, defected to the Alliance to Restore the Republic, the Alliance engineered an operation to break Gerrard V from the Empire's control. During the course of the battle, an Imperial pilot named Kasan Moor surrendered herself to the pilots of the Alliance's Gold Squadron. Following the battle, Moor supplied the Alliance with a wealth of information regarding the Empire's bases of operation, paving the way for guerrilla attacks on the Jade Moon and Balmorra. thumb|left|200px|The Imperial sensor array and spaceport on Kile II became a prime target for Rebel forces. The success of these attacks led Madine to authorize a large scale attack on the Imperial Enclave on Kile II. The Alliance's efforts were directed towards a large spaceport city on the planet, which was also home to a large sensor array and a number of stormtrooper barracks. Madine deployed Rogue Squadron, led by Luke Skywalker, who armed themselves with BTL Y-wing starfighters equipped with proton bombs. thumb|right|300px|The sensor array, one of Rogue Squadron's targets Rogue Squadron entered the Imperial enclave from a nearby canyon, where the Imperials were enlightened to their presence. They ambushed the Rebel attackers with swarms of TIE/LN starfighters when the Rogues came to a fork in the canyon's path, causing the squadron to scramble. The pilots of the slow moving Y-wings managed to overcome their shortcomings and outmaneuvered the Imperial ambush, laying waste to the Imperial spaceport, troop barracks, and sensor array. During the battle, a sudden wave of Imperial reinforcements caught Rogue wingmates Wedge Antilles and Rogue Seven off guard, leading to both of their Y-wings being gunned down, as well as an unidentified third Y-wing flying behind them. Antilles managed to crash-land safely and was promptly taken into custody by Imperial forces, who retreated soon after with him in haul. In the end, the Imperials suffered at least 65 casualties. The Alliance's operation effectively hindered Imperial activity in the sector, and proved to be another successful operation organized under the guidance of Kasan Moor. Following the battle, Commander Skywalker opted to organize an operation aimed at freeing fellow pilot and best friend Wedge Antilles from Imperial custody on Kessel. Rogue Squadron's attack on the Kile II spaceport was depicted in the "Assault on Kile II", the eight level of the Nintendo 64 and PC game Star Wars: Rogue Squadron. The player takes on the role of Luke Skywalker during the mission. To get a gold medal on the level&mdash;the highest ranking a player can achieve &mdash;one must ensure that all friendly units are kept safe (though Rogue Seven and Wedge Antilles are scripted to go down), the mission is completed under six minutes, and that at least sixty five enemies are destroyed. While the canonical order in which the three different sectors of the Imperial base were destroyed is unknown, if the player opted to attack the troop garrisons and the sensor array before the spaceport, an Imperial Lambda-class T-4a shuttle descends into the canyon to survey the damage before flying through the canyon into the airport, acting as something of a guide for players who are easily lost in the network of canyons. It is never specified who flew under the callsign "Rogue Seven" during the battle. Imperial defector Kasan Moor is the one who usually takes up the mantle, though it is implied that Rogue Seven was killed by Imperial forces prior to Wedge being shot down. A third Y-wing is seen being shot down in the beginning of the cutscene. *Star Wars: Rogue Squadron *Star Wars: Rogue Squadron: The Official Nintendo Player's Guide *The Essential Atlas Category:Battles in the Jospro sector Category:Battles of the Galactic Civil War