36441
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Wookiee_Trade_Guild
Wookiee Trade Guild
3578

The Wookiee Trade Guild was a large Wookiee-run corporation that controlled trade in the Kashyyyk system, based out of the Wawaatt Archipelago on Kashyyyk. Like other large trade guilds at the time, they maintained an private army to defend and enforce their assets. The Wookiee Trade Guild was dissolved in 28 BBY, when they resisted a Trade Federation tax, resulting in the Federation quickly retaliating by obliterating their headquarters and most of their army. thumb|left|250px|The Trade Federation strikes the Wookiee Trade Guild at their headquarters. The Wookiee Trade Guild was formed by Wookiees on Kashyyyk to direct trade on the planet and around the Kashyyyk system. The Wookiee Trade Guild was taxed by the Trade Federation in 28 BBY, but resisted the taxation, much to the aggravation of the Federation. Under the leadership of Count Dooku, an army of 200 battle droids&mdash;B1-series battle droids, droidekas, Vulture droids, and the newly manufactured B2 super battle droids&mdash;were sent to Kashyyyk. The Wookiee Trade Guild deployed their army of 200 Wookiees they had amassed to fight off the droids. As a result, a battle began between the Guild's army and the Federation's droid forces. Eventually, the Guild's army was forced to surrender after the Trade Federation annihilated their headquarters. The Wookiee Trade Guild operated in and around Kashyyyk, the homeworld of the Wookiee species. They controlled trade around Kashyyyk. Their headquarters were located in a Trade Settlement around the Wawaatt Archipelago, a group of islands on the jungle planet. The Wookiee Trade Guild's first and only appearance was in the 2004 video game Star Wars: Battlefront. They were featured in the third level of the Clone Wars campaign, titled "Aggressive Negotiations". The battle that ended with their dissolution is played from the point of view of the Trade Federation's army, marking the in-game debut of the B2 super battle droid. *Star Wars: Battlefront Category:Organizations of Kashyyyk Category:Transport companies