36595
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Yoda%27s_kybuck
Yoda's kybuck
6513

}} A male kybuck was owned by Jedi Grand Master Yoda during the last years of the Galactic Republic. It was employed during the earliest and last days of the Clone Wars. thumb|250x250px|Yoda's kybuck was kept in a menagerie in the [[Coruscant/Legends|Coruscant Jedi Temple.]] Native from the Mid Rim planet of Kashyyyk, a male neutered kybuck was given to Jedi Master Yoda by a Woolwarricca Princess for his role in healing her. It was actually the last of a long series of kybucks owned by the Jedi Master, which had consisted of over thirty three.The Jedi Path: A Manual for Students of the Force When Yoda returned to Coruscant, he brought this kybuck with him and kept it in an expansive gardenThe Clone Wars: Deadly Hands of Shon-Ju beneath the Jedi Temple. Yoda took great care of the animal, but never assumed the role of its master and owner, as it was frowned upon for Jedi to take possessions, and instead became a friend to the creature. He called to it through the Force rather than by name, as he believed it did not need one. Although not normally used as mounts, Yoda's slight size allowed him to ride the beast. The kybuck only wore a light saddle, as well as protective visors for combat. thumb|left|250x250px|Yoda rides his kybuck into battle.Yoda rode his kybuck many times during the Clone Wars, including on an unidentified planet and even for some period of time during the Battle of Coruscant. Even though the kybuck was brave enough to stand before the Separatists, he but kept the creature safely away from any danger. Eventually Yoda was too concerned for his friend and sent him away from the thickest of the fighting. In 19 BBY,Yoda's kybuck is seen alive during the events of "Chapter 25", which The Essential Reader's Companion places in 19 BBY. Book of Sith: Secrets from the Dark Side reveals that the kybuck died before Yoda went in exile on Dagobah, which The New Essential Chronology also places in 19 BBY. As result such year must be the date of the kybuck's death. at some point after the Battle of Coruscant and before the Great Jedi Purge, Yoda's kybuck was killed on a patrol of the Sith world of Korriban by wild Tuk'atas. He did not chose another mount, leaving his heart heavy.Book of Sith: Secrets from the Dark Side While being lost on Korriban, to the public it was not known what happened to the kybuck after the fire at the Jedi Temple the night of Order 66. In 43 ABY,The Essential Reader's Companion while viewing a pen of kybucks at the Coruscant Livestock Exchange and Exhibition, Leia Organa Solo recounted that Master Yoda had ridden a kybuck on occasion during the final days of the Clone Wars.Fate of the Jedi: Omen *Star Wars: Clone Wars Cine-Manga *The Clone Wars: Deadly Hands of Shon-Ju *Fate of the Jedi: Omen *Book of Sith: Secrets from the Dark Side Category:Jedi individuals Category:Pets