36650
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Jak_Sazz
Jak Sazz
7465

Jak Sazz was an Ab'Ugartte who frequented the Byss Bistro on the Imperial Freight Complex above the planet Byss. Unsociable and unhygienic, Sazz was often mocked and looked down upon by those around him. He made a living performing almost any job asked of him, including smuggling, slaving, and spice-jacking. He often carried a large hydrospanner that he nicknamed "Grivooga." Sazz considered Grivooga his only friend, carrying the tool around with him everywhere he went and having frequent conversations with it. He was known to be a good cook, although he often ate his food live. Sazz was also known for beating a crewmate who had ridiculed him to death with Grivooga. Despite Sazz's unusual lifestyle, he was respected for his many abilities. In 10 ABY, he was present at the Byss Bistro when the New Republic infiltrated the Emperor's Citadel on the planet. thumb|left|250px|Jak Sazz often ate his food live. Jak Sazz was an Ab'Ugartte, a little-known species not known for their congeniality, although Sazz was considered an outcast even among them. Sazz's only friend was "Grivooga," an oversized hydrospanner he constantly talked to and carried around everywhere. He typically used Grivooga to repair his old starship, as well as to pummel live food. Sazz frequented the Byss Bistro, a cantina on the Imperial Freight Complex above the planet Byss, where his bad hygiene often kept the other bar patrons as far away from him as possible. Sazz was considered a lowlife by many denizens of the underworld, and even the Hutts were reluctant about contracting him for work. He never refused any paying job and had done work as a smuggler, an enslaver, a spice-jacker, and a garbage tech aboard a media cruiser. Lando Calrissian had constantly joked that Sazz would even haul unshielded antimatter for the right price until Sazz took it seriously and kept pestering Calrissian to see if he had any. A crewmate of Sazz's once mocked the Ab'Ugartte about his relationship with Grivooga. Sazz, not possessing much of a sense of humor, beat the crewmate to death with Grivooga and cooked them for a meal. This deterred future crewmates and partners from making quips about him and Grivooga. In 10 ABY,Star Wars: The Comics Companion dates the events of Dark Empire 5 to ten years after the events of , which equates to 10 ABY according to The New Essential Chronology. Sazz was present at the Byss Bistro after Emperor Palpatine's resurrection in a clone body and,Dark Empire 5 later the same year,Star Wars: The Comics Companion dates the events of Dark Empire II 4 to ten years after the events of , which equates to 10 ABY according to The New Essential Chronology. he was present there again before the New Republic attack on the Emperor's Citadel on Byss.Dark Empire II 4 Jak Sazz was well-known for his unhygienic lifestyle. He was never known to bathe and preferred consuming only live food. He was the subject of many jokes among his colleagues, though he had no sense of humor himself, and some argued that his continued existence was proof that entropy was winning in the universe. Despite this, many still respected Sazz's abilities. Sazz's close relationship with Grivooga was well-known, and many people made bets that he even carried the hydrospanner into the turboshower with him, though since there was never any evidence that Sazz had ever used a turboshower, many of these bets remained uncollected. Aside from being able to carry out almost any type of job, Sazz's other talents included cooking, astrogation, starship repair, and archaic starship piloting. While in the Byss Bistro, Sazz wore a set of plated armor. He often carried Grivooga with him, having named the hydrospanner and formed a relationship with it. Jak Sazz first appeared in the fifth issue of the Star Wars: Dark Empire comic book series. The issue was written by Tom Veitch, illustrated by Cam Kennedy, and released by Dark Horse Comics on August 18, 1992. He was first identified by name in the 1993 roleplaying game supplement Dark Empire Sourcebook, which was authored by Michael Allen Horne. *Dark Empire 5 *Dark Empire II 4 *Dark Empire Sourcebook *A Guide to the Star Wars Universe, Second Edition, Revised and Expanded *Star Wars Encyclopedia *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Ab'Ugartte Category:Chefs Category:Enslavers Category:Individuals of unspecified gender Category:Individuals with he/him pronouns Category:Mechanics Category:Pilots Category:Pirates Category:Smugglers