36856
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Cesi_Eirriss
Cesi Eirriss
18451

Cesi "Doc" Eirriss was a female Twi'lek pilot who served in the Alliance to Restore the Republic's Red Squadron prior to the Battle of Yavin. Around 0 BBY she accompanied Wedge Antilles, Biggs Darklighter and Jek Tono Porkins to Commenor to escort Nera Dantels and her badly needed cargo of astromech droids to Yavin 4. Pursued by TIE Fighters shortly after leaving Commenor, Eirriss's ship was hit by debris from an exploding TIE solar panel, damaging her deflector shield generator and hyperdrive. Antilles ordered her to abandon ship, but Eirriss knew that a recovery would take away precious time from their escape and directed her X-wing into a collision course with the pursuing TIEs. Eirriss was killed when her ship was destroyed in the resulting collision, though the explosion eliminated a number of the Imperial starfighters and gave the other Rebels a chance to escape to hyperspace. thumb|left|240px|Cesi Eirriss, political scientist and Rebel pilot By 0 BBY, Cesi Eirriss attained a doctorate in political science. However, the woman's career took a different path when she joined the Alliance to Restore the Republic as a starfighter pilot. By the time of the Destruction of Alderaan, she was based at the Rebel base on the fourth moon of the gas giantGeonosis and the Outer Rim Worlds Yavin Prime, where she was assigned to Red Squadron. Her doctorate earned her the nickname "Doc" among the other pilots. The Alliance was in need of additional starfighters for use in their war against the Galactic Empire. After they learned of a number of T-65 X-wing starfighters at an Incom Corporation assembly facility, Eirriss was one several pilots called to a briefing in which General Jan Dodonna outlined a plan to capture the fighters by using four TIE/LN starfighters, recently brought to the Alliance by the defecting crew of the Imperial II-class frigate Rand Ecliptic, to draw the defending TIE Fighters away from the nearby Imperial Security Bureau base. With the facility temporarily undefended, the Rand Ecliptic would arrive with a GR-75 medium transport to retrieve the X-wings. The mission was a success and the Rebels retrieved several X-wings, although Peate Kurin was killed and Derek Klivian lost a leg during the diversionary raid. Soon after the mission, Eirriss was able to practice in the captured X-wings along with Wedge Antilles, Biggs Darklighter and Jek Tono Porkins, before the four went to visit Klivian as he recovered in the infirmary. Although the X-wings had relieved the Alliance's immediate shortage of starfighters, they were still critically short of the astromech droids required to help the pilots operate the ships. The Empire, anticipating their need, had begun impounding the droids to keep them out of Rebel hands, but the Alliance had located a source when Captain Nera Dantels of the civilian freighter Starduster arranged to rendezvous with Alliance forces on the Imperial stronghold of Commenor to deliver a shipment of R2 and R5 units. Dodonna decided to keep personnel and ships to a minimum by launching an undercover operation to retrieve the droids. Eirriss was selected for the mission, along with Antilles, Darklighter and Porkins, and was briefed by the general before departing for Commenor. thumb|right|240px|Eirriss in a brawl on Commenor The four Rebels headed for Commenor with Eirriss flying under the call sign "Red Four." After landing their X-wings at the spaceport on Commenor, the Rebels rented a landspeeder and proceeded to a local cantina, where they had been told to play a game of sabacc while waiting for Dantels. While they played, the Rebels heard the latest news of the dissolution of the Imperial Senate on the HoloNet, learning of the apparent disappearance of Senator Leia Organa of the planet Alderaan. Eirriss dropped out of the game when the bet got too high, leaving Porkins to go on and win. Eirriss suggested a game of null-gravity caroms next, but before they could start a new game, Antilles received a signal from Dantels directing them to a nearby hangar, and the group departed. Outside the cantina, the Rebels were met by a local gang who attempted to elicit a protection fee by claiming to have chased thieves away from their landspeeder. When one of them insulted Porkins, the Rebel responded with a knee to the youth's midsection and a brawl broke out between the two groups. The fight came to an abrupt end when the Rebels drew their blasters and made a quick exit before Imperial authorities arrived. Eirriss and the group proceeded to Hangar Bay 31 where they were due to rendezvous with Dantels. After confirming their identity, Dantels took the Rebels to the Starduster, where Eirriss quickly checked to see if the droids appeared to be in working order. Satisfied, the Rebels arranged to meet up with Dantels in orbit, after retrieving their X-wings, and lead the Starduster back to Yavin 4. However, they were unaware that one of the street gang had followed them to the rendezvous and alerted a stormtrooper to the meeting. The stormtrooper called the Imperial base on the nearby moon of Folor to warn them of the fleeing Rebels and, by the time the Rebels reached orbit, the Imperials had already dispatched TIE/LN starfighters to intercept them over Commenor. thumb|left|240px|"Doc" flew her X-wing as part of Rogue Squadron over Commenor. Seeing the incoming fighters, Antilles instructed Eirris and Porkins to provide cover for the Starduster while he and Darklighter moved to engage the Imperials. Eirriss and Porkins were soon engaged with TIEs that had broken past Antilles and Darklighter but were able to eliminate the TIEs, with each destroying their wingmate's pursuers. However, while the Rebels were occupied, more TIEs attacked the Starduster. Dantels used her ship's laser cannons to destroy the TIEs, but Eirriss's X-wing was struck by the solar panel from one of the Imperial fighters, damaging her shield generator and hyperdrive. Since Eirriss was unable to handle the necessary repairs on her own, Antilles ordered her to pressurize her flight suit and eject to be picked up by the Starduster. With a new wave of TIEs incoming, Eirriss instead told the others to make the jump to hyperspace and set a collision course for the approaching fighters. Eirriss was killed in a head-on collision that destroyed her X-wing and a number of TIEs, but her actions provided the time needed for her comrades to flee the Commenor system. When the Empire's Death Star battle station later moved against the Rebel base on Yavin 4, the survivors of the Commenor mission vowed to destroy it in Eirriss's name. Her place in the squadron for the Battle of Yavin was filled by John D. Branon. Though Eirriss died before Antilles and Luke Skywalker formed Rogue Squadron following the Battle of Yavin, she was included in a holographic memorial to the squadron's deadX-Wing Rogue Squadron 35 as late as 5 ABY.Star Wars Omnibus: X-Wing Rogue Squadron Volume 3 places the events of Star Wars: X-Wing Rogue Squadron: Mandatory Retirement approximately one year after the Battle of Endor, which The New Essential Chronology places in 4 ABY. thumb|right|360px|Eirriss gave her life to counter the TIE attack on her squadron. Despite having a doctorate in political science, Cesi Eirriss chose to join the Rebel Alliance in their struggle against the Galactic Empire. She was a capable pilot, who developed a good relationship with the other members of Red Squadron and was also capable of handling herself in a fight, helping her wingmates to defeat the street thugs on Commenor. Eirriss believed that making a sacrifice for the greater good was worthwhile. After Dodonna outlined his plan to capture X-wings from the Incom facility, Darklighter expressed his concerns over the need to sacrifice the Rand Ecliptic TIE Fighters, but Eirriss stated that it was a small price to pay and spoke of her respect for Dodonna's tactical ability. When her starfighter suffered damage during the Commenor mission, Eirriss was ultimately willing to sacrifice her life in order to give her comrades time to escape. Eiriss was a Twi'lek with olive-green skin who had maroon or pink lips and green eyes defined by dark shades around the rim, sometimes with additional turquoise smudged above the eye. She curled one of her lekku around her chest. As an X-wing pilot, Eirriss wore an orange Rebel flight suit with a brown holster by her right waist for a DL-44 heavy blaster pistol. She donned black gloves and boots, with a loop of ammunition below her right knee. White headgear wrapped around the top of her lekku and enclosed the sides of her head, and it extended to enclose her neck. Eirriss' flight helmet accomodated the upper portions of her lekku and was bulbous and white, with an amber visor that extended down to her nose, a white chinstrap, yellow stripes slanting to her left over a white panel at the front of the helmet, and orange dots over the rims around the sides of her head. On Commenor, Eirriss fashioned a pair of boots, belt, and jacket in black over a set of dark olive-gray tunic and trousers with a black line running down its length. thumb|right|240px|Cesi Eirriss's action figure Cesi Eirriss was created by Michael A. Stackpole for the one-shot comic X-Wing Rogue Squadron ½, published on February 1, 1997. She later made a brief appearance as a hologram in X-Wing Rogue Squadron 35 and appeared in the third issue of the Star Wars: Empire: Darklighter story arc by Paul Chadwick, which was set around the events of X-wing Rogue Squadron ½ and included a brief recap of that story. She also received entries in Jason Fry's Star Wars Insider 59 article Who's Who in Rogue Squadron and The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia. In 2008, an Eirriss action figure was included in an "Evolutions" three-pack of Rebel pilots as part of Hasbro's Star Wars: The Legacy Collection. Whereas Rogue Squadron ½ showed Eirriss with ears and pale white skin, she had olive-green skin with the sides of her head covered in Empire 12, Rogue Squadron 35, and her Hasbro action figure and its corresponding packaging illustration. This article assumes that the first comic issue is in error. *X-Wing Rogue Squadron ½ *Empire 12 *Empire 15 *X-Wing Rogue Squadron 35 *The New Essential Guide to Characters *Ultimate Alien Anthology *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia *The Essential Guide to Warfare *Star Wars: The Ultimate Action Figure Collection Category:Females Category:Individuals with she/her pronouns Category:Red Squadron personnel Category:Twi'leks