37174
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Jobin
Jobin
21986

|gender=Male |pronouns=He/him |height= |mass= |hair=Black |feathers= |eyes=Black |skin=Light |cyber= |families=Mothma family |parents=*Jobin's father *Mon Mothma |partners= |siblings=Lieda Mothma |children= |affiliation=*Alliance to Restore the Republic **Alliance Military ***Wilderness Fighters ****4th Squad |masters= |apprentices= }} Jobin was a Human male who served as a corporal in the military of the Alliance to Restore the Republic. He was also the son of Mon Mothma, one of the founders of the Alliance, and was brother to Lieda Mothma. By 3 ABY, during the Galactic Civil War in which the Alliance fought against the Galactic Empire, Jobin was stationed at Echo Base on the planet Hoth. He helped establish the perimeter defenses of the base and was assigned as leader of the 4th Squad. In 3 ABY, knowing that the Empire had found Echo Base and was about to attack, Jobin began recording a hologram message for his mother, which he finished just as the first Imperial walkers approached. During the battle, Jobin's attention was called to Imperial forces proceeding to the base's ion cannon, which was essential to allow a safe evacuation. He led a group of troopers, including Grond, Sora, Roj, and another trooper, to retake the cannon. While losing two comrades, Jobin was successful in defeating the occupying snowtroopers and activating the ion cannon to save one of the last evacuating transports. Jobin and his remaining companions then tried to reach a transport but were intercepted by the Sith Lord Darth Vader and several snowtroopers. Jobin was injured as the group tried to flee, and he rejected his comrade's attempt to help, instead passing on his recorded message and trying to hold off Vader. The Sith levitated Jobin with the Force and demanded the location of the Rebel rendezvous point. Jobin refused and spat in Vader's face, prompting his execution. The corporal's message and news of his death did not reach his mother until almost a year later, shortly before the Battle of Endor. thumb|right|250px|Jobin was the son of Mon Mothma (pictured) Jobin was a Human male member of the Mothma family, the son of the Human Chandrilan senatorThe New Essential Guide to Characters Mon Mothma and a male individual. He also had a sister named Lieda Mothma and was the grandson of Tanis Mothma, governor of Hanna City on the planet Chandrila,Coruscant and the Core Worlds and her spouse, a Republic arbiter-general. Jobin became a member of the Alliance to Restore the Republic, an organization his mother had founded to fight against the reigning Galactic Empire in the Galactic Civil War. By 3 ABY, Jobin had risen to the rank of corporal in the Alliance Military and was stationed as part of the ground forces at Echo Base on the ice planet Hoth. In spite of being the youngest noncommissioned officer in his battalion, Jobin was reassigned by Major Bren Derlin to move from his old unit to be leader of the 4th Squad. Jobin found the adjustment difficult but felt his new companions, many of whom were veterans of battles such as Yavin and Daluuj, were welcoming and encouraging to the Alliance's newer members. Jobin's squad spent a significant period of time establishing the perimeter defenses of Echo Base. In 3 ABY, Captain Han Solo found and destroyed an Imperial Viper probe droid near the base, leading the Rebels to anticipate an attack and commence evacuation procedures. thumb|left|250px|Jobin shortly before the Battle of Hoth While waiting in the trenches at Echo Station 5-7 in preparation, Jobin began recording a hologram to his mother, despite his battalion commander's orders against communicating with family. Jobin quietly ignored the orders, believing that he did not have time to wait any longer. He recounted his experiences with his squad and described the conditions on Hoth. He kept the planet's identity secret and only referred to the cold temperature, which had prevented their airspeeders from operating without modifications and required the domestication of the local tauntauns for exploration. In his recording, Jobin acknowledged Solo's encounter with the probe droid and that he felt prepared for the approaching Imperial Army. He also commented on his beliefs about himself and his role, such as his fear of losing himself in war and his confidence that he had made a difference by fighting in the Rebel Alliance. As Imperial All Terrain Armored Transports approached Echo Station 3-T-8, Jobin closed out his message by sending his love and best wishes to his mother, his father, and Lieda. The troops at Echo Station 5-7 came under attack from the Imperial walkers, prompting Jobin to shout into his comlink for air support, which immediately arrived in the form of modified snowspeeders. He called for a corpsman to assist a wounded soldier, after which one of his companions pointed out an Imperial All Terrain Scout Transport and several snowtroopers approaching Echo Base's ion cannon, which was essential to disable the encroaching Imperial Star Destroyers and allowing the Rebel transports to safely evacuate. The corporal tried to contact the cannon's control center via comlink, but it had already been captured by snowtroopers. Jobin ordered four other troopers; Roj, Sora, Grond, and another trooper; to follow him, while also instructing the trooper Jielu to remain to protect the south entrance. As they neared the ion cannon, Jobin ordered Grond and Sora to circle around Echo Base's entrance and wait for his signal to attack. The corporal, Roj, and the other trooper came under fire from the AT-ST but were able to take cover, leading the walker to target Grond and Sora and take its attention away from Jobin. This allowed the corporal to throw an explosive package at the AT-ST and bring it down. thumb|right|300px|Jobin escapes the clutches of a snowtrooper. Jobin and his team of five crept in to retake the control center from the occupying snowtroopers, knowing that any further transports would be unable to escape without an active ion cannon. The corporal gave the order to fire on the snowtroopers from the control center's entrance, hitting several of them, although one of the Rebel troopers was killed by returning fire. Another grabbed a comlink to announce that Imperial troops had entered the base and was gunned down in the process. Jobin lunged for the ion cannon's control panel and was caught in a chokehold by one of the snowtroopers. In order to free himself, Jobin snapped a nearby icicle from the ground and shoved it back into the snowtrooper's eye, freeing himself to activate the ion cannon and disable an Imperial-class Star Destroyer. His actions allowed some of the last Rebel transports to escape Hoth. While Jobin looked in horror at one of his deceased comrades, one of the two survivors informed him that they had activated the cannon's self-destruct sequence and that the group needed to flee. Jobin began moving out, knowing that they could potentially join one of the final evacuating transports in Hangar Bay 7. thumb|left|350px|Darth Vader used the Force to execute Jobin As the three troopers proceeded, they encountered several snowtroopers and the Sith Lord Darth Vader, who had just witnessed the takeoff of the YT-1300 light freighter Millennium Falcon. Vader ordered his soldiers to capture the rebels, who evaded their blasterfire as Jobin ordered them to get to Hangar Ten. The hangar contained a BTL Y-wing starfighter, but just as the rebels neared it, Jobin was hit by blasterfire on his left side. Roj yelled and tried to run back for the corporal, but Jobin ordered them to escape, passing over his pre-recorded hologram so that his mother could receive it. While the starfighter escaped, Jobin pulled out a Relby-k23 blaster pistol to fire at the snowtroopers and give his companions more time to escape. He succeeded at killing one of them while Vader blocked his next shots with the Force until Jobin's blaster was empty. Using the force to lift Jobin into the air, Vader demanded that he reveal the location of the Rebel rendezvous point, promising mercy if he did so. Jobin rejected the offer and spat in Vader's face, telling him to use his mercy elsewhere. In response, Vader telekinetically snapped Jobin's neck. Mon Mothma was unaware of Jobin's fate until nearly a year later, when she received Jobin's hologram while aboard the Star Cruiser Home One. She pondered why the message had taken so long to reach her, and just as it finished playing, the Rebel General Crix Madine entered Mothma's quarters to inform her that the Alliance members aboard the cruiser were ready for her briefing. Mothma asked if there had been any news about Jobin, and Madine confirmed that he had been killed at the Battle of Hoth. The subsequent briefing set the stage for the Battle of Endor, which resulted in the deaths of Vader and Emperor Palpatine. thumb|right|350px|Jobin destroys an AT-ST during the Battle of Hoth Jobin was loyal to the Alliance to Restore the Republic and believed in the value of his actions. He chose to ignore his commander's orders in order to send a recording to his mother, correctly anticipating that he would not have another opportunity. He observed that the military veterans in his squad were afraid of the future and death in spite of their tough exteriors. Jobin hoped that his squad's combat abilities would be enough to ensure that they could fight instinctually and without the liability of thinking. In his recording to his mother, he also expressed concerns about losing his morality, which he feared more than his physical death, and recognized that he would need to commit atrocities and adapt to survive, but he also focused on the greater good he wanted to achieve rather than his personal sacrifices, including those he could not keep alive. Jobin reflected that many beings perceived their lives as a series of choices that they would look back on and evaluate, but was confident that when his death came that he would hold his head high and smile in pride at his decisions, particularly his role in the Rebel Alliance. He felt that he had given his life purpose and meaning in trying to make a difference for the galaxy. After being shot by snowtroopers, Jobin ordered his comrades to leave him behind so that they could escape, only passing on his message for his mother. He exhibited open defiance towards Darth Vader, who had no time for his delay and killed him quickly. Jobin had light skin, black eyes, and black hair. Jobin was trained as a Rebel soldier and became a corporal in the Alliance Army. During the Battle of Hoth, he threw an explosive package onto an AT-ST, destroying it. While being put into a chokehold by a snowtrooper, Jobin was resourceful enough to use an icicle to stab his assailant in the eye and free himself. On Hoth, Jobin wore Alliance Cold Weather armor, consisting of a tan vest, thick white coverings on his limbs, and a cap with adjustable goggles. He wore a red sash around his headgear and carried a personal hologram with which he could record messages. At one point, shortly before the Battle of Hoth commenced, Jobin drank a warm beverage from a cup. In battle, he wielded an A295 blaster rifle, a Relby-k23 blaster pistol, and an explosive package. thumb|right|200px|Jobin was introduced by the comic "Entrenched," which was collected in the anthology Star Wars Visionaries (cover pictured). Jobin was created for the short comic story "Entrenched," created for the graphic novel anthology Star Wars: Visionaries. The comic was written by Alex Jaeger and M. Zachary Sherman, and also illustrated by Jaeger. Jobin was first indirectly mentioned in a preview of Visionaries published on StarWars.com on March 15, 2005, prior to the publication of the graphic novel by Dark Horse Comics on April 2, 2005. Author Pablo Hidalgo mentioned Jobin in response to a fan question about Lieda Mothma in the "Ask the Master" section of the Star Wars Insider magazine's 82nd issue, which began shipping to subscribers on May 17, 2005. At the time, Hidalgo acknowledged Jobin's sibling relation to Lieda but acknowledged that there was no indication as to the identity of their father or if either of them shared their mother's surname, although Lieda's full name was later canonically confirmed within the Star Wars Legends continuity by Jobin's entry in The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia in 2008. The Encyclopedia also stated that Jobin reported on the presence of Imperial forces within Echo Base, however, in "Entrenched," a different trooper announces that the base has been penetrated before being killed by snowtroopers. *Star Wars: The Comics Companion *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Alliance Army officers Category:Humans Category:Individuals with he/him pronouns Category:Males Category:Mothma family