37270
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Jabrogg_Thung
Jabrogg Thung
4493

Jabrogg Thung was a male Gamorrean who lived during the last decades of the Galactic Republic. He partook in the sport of nerf-throwing, and became the intergalactic nerf-throwing champion. During his sporting career, he fatally injured several nerfs, which lead to the Galactic Humane Society placing a bounty on his head. The Mandalorian bounty hunter Jango Fett encountered Thung on the Outland Transit Station in 32 BBY and captured him alive, claiming the bounty for 2,000 credits. By the year 32 BBY, Thung had taken up a career in the sport known as nerf-throwing and, while working as an athlete, he was responsible for the fatal injury of several nerfs, a species of non-sentient grazing animal. Thung's prowess in the sport led to him being considered the intergalactic nerf-throwing champion, but his involvement in the death of the nerfs resulted in the Galactic Humane Society placing a bounty on his head. The organization offered 2,000 credits for his capture alive, but would only pay 1,000 credits if he was killed. By 32 BBY, Thugg's career had faltered and he scratched out a living as a hired thug on the crime-infested space station Outland in the Outer Rim Territories. While Thung was there, the Mandalorian bounty hunter Jango Fett also arrived on the station and begun hunting down the Muttani crime boss Meeko Ghintee as a favor to the station's Toydarian owner, Rozatta. While in pursuit of a fleeing Ghintee, Thung, accompanied by several other Gamorreans and Trandoshans, attacked the Mandalorian. However, Fett managed to successfully capture the former sports champion alive and later claimed the bounty of 2,000 from the Society. Jabrogg Thung was a male Gamorrean with green skin and yellow eyes. Like most Gamorreans, he possessed exceptional strength and resilience. A hardened criminal, he did not hesitate to try and kill Fett when the two crossed paths. In combat, Thung used a Vibro-ax and wore brown armor, including a helmet. Thung first appeared in the video game Star Wars: Bounty Hunter, developed by LucasArts and released in 2002. In the game, Jabrogg is the second of five possible secondary bounties that a player can secure in the pit fighters' training yard in Chapter One. Players have the option of taking him alive or killing him, but this article assumes that he was captured alive as this is the option with the highest reward. He also was mentioned in the Star Wars: Bounty Hunter: Prima's Official Strategy Guide, which was released along side the game by Prima. *Star Wars: Bounty Hunter *Star Wars: Bounty Hunter: Prima's Official Strategy Guide Category:Athletes Category:Criminals Category:Gamorreans Category:Males