37381
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Calian_Confederacy
Calian Confederacy
6498

The Calian Confederacy was the government of Humans on the remote planet Shiva IV. The Calians had a distinct warrior culture that sprung up far removed from the influence of the rest of the galaxy, and its fighters were renowned as some of the strongest in known space. The Calian Confederacy spent generations at war with the native T'Syriél, whose Twelve Tribes were the Calians' most compelling rivals in the quest for dominance of their homeworld. In 2 ABY, Warlord Aron Peacebringer brought an end to this era of combat, signing the Concordat of Peace with T'Syriél Demarch Kéral Longknife. The Calian Confederacy was the name used by the civilization of Humans that lived on the remote planet Shiva IV. The Confederacy's capital was the throne city of Illyriaqüm, but encompassed a number of outlying cities, including K'avor. The planet's Human population, known as Calians, had several distinctions from baseline Humans: a distinctive reddish-tan skin and uncommon physical strength, that was manifested in a storied warrior tradition. Warriors of the Calian Confederacy were considered some of the most formidable in known space, and were marked by their ability to enter a berzerker "battle rage," where they became nearly unstoppable in the field of combat. The Calians' martial tradition was reflected in the Confederacy's hierarchy&mdash;the leader of the alliance was referred to as the Warlord, and strength of arms was important in Calian society. Although Calians fought with simple weapons such as sabers, the Confederacy had access to much more advanced technology, including airspeeders and battleships that made up a significant fleet. Culturally, the Calian Confederacy was quite distinct from other Human populations throughout the galaxy, and its natives spoke a language not registered in many translatacomps. thumb|left|250px|Illyriaqüm, capital of the Calian Confederacy. The Calian Confederacy rose to prominence on Shiva IV in the centuries preceding the Galactic Civil War, but it was not alone. The Calians shared Shiva IV with another sentient species, the T'Syriél, whose Twelve Tribes posed the biggest threat to Calian hegemony over Shiva IV. The Calian Confederacy and the Twelve Tribes warred continuously for generations, until 2 ABY, when a warrior named Aron&mdash;who had slowly worked his way up the Calian heirarchy to the title of Warlord&mdash;forged a blood brotherhood with T'Syriél Demarch Kéral Longknife, and signed the Concordat of Peace that brought an end to the fighting. That peace, which brought Aron the name Aron Peacebringer, held for the next year, although many in the Confederacy were restless and missed the old days. In 3 ABY, communications between the capital of Illyriaqüm and the city of K'avor were suddenly severed, leading Peacebringer and Longknife to lead an expedition to the city to investigate&mdash;they found that the city had been obliterated by some kind of anti-matter bomb. Soon after, the cause was revealed: a Imperial General named Bentilais san Sk'ar had allied with Ygal Delois, the captain of Peacebringer's guard, to conquer Shiva IV in the Empire's name and put Delois on the throne of the Calian Confederacy. Sk'ar and Delois attempted to detonate a similar bomb in Illyriaqüm, but their plans were foiled by Peacebringer, Longknife, and several Rebel agents, Leia Organa, Luke Skywalker and Chewbacca. The Calian Confederacy first appeared in Star Wars (1977) 53, written by Chris Claremont and released in 1981. *Star Wars (1977) 53 *Star Wars (1977) 54 Confederacy Category:Planetary governments Category:Wild Space governments