37565
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Lone_Scout-A
Lone Scout-A
6927

*New Republic }} The Lone Scout-A was a scout vessel which used technology similar to the TIE Series starships, especially the TIE/sr starfighter. Produced by Republic Sienar Systems, it was later manufactured by Sienar Fleet Systems and its civilian subsidiary, Sienar Ships. The Lone Scout-A served as an exploration vessel for the Galactic Empire and the New Republic, as well as civilian scouts. A civilian variant of the TIE/sr starfighter,Rebellion Era Campaign Guide the Scout-A was designed to be operated by a crew of one, but could carry three passengers, and carried enough consumables for a full year of operation. It had space to carry 150 metric tons of cargo in its 60 cubic meter hold. It was equipped with a Class 2 hyperdrive with a Class 15 backup hyperdrive, shields and a single laser cannon for defense. It featured a high-quality sensor array although it had a lower sensitivity than the military TIE/sr. It was one of the first ships to use the revolutionary Twin Ion Engine design, with a cockpit and sublight engines strongly foreshadowing later Sienar craft. Many of the basic technologies used were identical to those used in the TIE starfighter line. However, its large passenger and cargo compartment made it much larger than those later starfighter designs,Galaxy Guide 8: Scouts stretching it out to a length of 24 meters. The Lone Scout-A was intended for use in exploring the wild regions of the galaxy. Unlike the TIE series, the Lone Scout-A was made available to, and widely used by, the civilian market. It was also used by the Imperial Survey Corps, and later, the New Republic Bureau of Scouting and Exploration Services. Around 7 ABY, the Dark Side magician Dhar Bullwin used a modified Lone Scout-A, the Logrus, as his personal vessel. It was modified to have a quad laser turret mounted about the cockpit and some external hull modifications. It was flat black in color and had modified engines to increase speed and maneuverability. It also include an emergency escape pod mounted onto the vessel's ventral surface. Another variant, the Lone Scout A-2, was also produced. It had an improved backup hyperdrive and a new deep scan sensor array. *"Child of Light" *Star Wars: The Roleplaying Game, Second Edition *Star Wars Gamemaster Screen *Galaxy Guide 8: Scouts *Star Wars Gamemaster Screen, Revised *Star Wars: The Roleplaying Game, Second Edition, Revised and Expanded *Gamemaster Toolkit: Live-Action Adventures *The Far Orbit Project *Ultimate Adversaries *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia *Rebellion Era Campaign Guide Category:Republic Sienar Systems products Category:Scout starship classes Category:Sienar Ships products Category:Starship classes of the Galactic Empire Category:Starship classes of the New Republic