37596
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Nighthunter
Nighthunter
4280

Nighthunters were nest-residing creatures that were known to the Chiss Ascendancy in the Unknown Regions. The creatures featured in several phrases that compared nighthunters to similarly dangerous subjects. Such phrases were used on numerous occasions by the associates of the Chiss Thrawn. Nighthunters were creatures that were known of by the Chiss of the Chiss Ascendancy in the Unknown Regions. Residing in nests and hunting targets, nighthunters were considered to be dangerous, particularly compared to whisker cubs. Within the Unknown Regions, nighthunters were the subject of several phrases that referenced the danger that the creatures posed. The Chiss Senior Captain Irizi'ar'alani compared Senior Commander Mitth'raw'nuruodo's worry over backlash regarding his method of saving an excursion liner from the atmosphere of a gas giant to the fear of nighthunters lurking in his future. Years later, around 19 BBY,The main events of Thrawn Ascendancy: Chaos Rising, including the mention of nighthunters, must take place around 19 BBY, as per Star Wars: Timelines. Ziara, by that time Admiral Ar'alani, considered the possibility of the Mitth family, perceiving Senior Captain Thrawn to be a liability, intended to metaphorically throw him to the nighthunters by not showing up to his tribunal after he disobeyed orders to achieve victory during a military engagement. Supreme General Ba'kif referred to Thrawn's agitation of the Nikardun Destiny as kicking over a nighthunter nest, while Mid Captain Ufsa'mak'ro compared the Chiss Ascendancy, as seen by the Nikardun, to a nighthunter in contrast to the whisker cub that was the Lioaoin Regime. In the following year, during the Ascendancy's campaigns to eliminate Nikardun resistance, Ar'alani compared a nighthunter nest to Nikardun missile boats attacking Senior Captain Lakinda's Grayshrike, though Lakinda acknowledged that her attackers were more comparable to whisker cubs. thumb|right|175px|Nighthunters as they appear in Star Wars Legends In the new Star Wars canon, nighthunters were first mentioned in the novel Thrawn Ascendancy: Chaos Rising, written by Timothy Zahn and published in 2020. In Star Wars Legends, they were first shown in the Power of the Jedi SourcebookPower of the Jedi Sourcebook and later appeared in the video game Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic II: The Sith Lords, in which they were named "maalraas".Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic II: The Sith Lords *Thrawn Ascendancy: Chaos Rising *Thrawn Ascendancy: Greater Good Category:Creatures of unspecified biology Category:Creatures of unspecified diet Category:Species of undefined sentience