37698
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Rhysati_Ynr
Rhysati Ynr
25688

Rhysati Ynr was a Human female who served as a pilot in the New Republic's legendary Rogue Squadron during the Galactic Civil War. The Empire forced her family to flee their homeworld of Bespin, but she later joined the Rogues when Commander Wedge Antilles rebuilt the squadron in 6.5 ABY. Her goal was to become the best pilot in the elite unit, and she led the rebuilt Rogues' Two Flight during their first official mission. Ynr participated in many key battles, including the capture of Borleias, and she and her fellow Rogues went undercover to help the New Republic liberate the galactic capital of Coruscant from the Empire. Ynr was flying her X-wing starfighter over Coruscant in 7 ABY when deposed Imperial leader Ysanne Isard escaped the planet in the Super Star Destroyer Lusankya. She and the rest of the squadron soon afterward resigned their commissions and independently pursued the Bacta War against Isard, which culminated in the successful Battle of Thyferra. Rogue Squadron were welcomed back into the New Republic with open arms, but Ynr left active service in order to start a family with fellow Rogue Nawara Ven, with whom she was romantically involved. The two soon married, and in 43 ABY, Ynr was recruited by Lando Calrissian to fly an interceptor in a mission to save Kessel from a series of groundquakes that threatened to destroy the entire planet. Rhysati Ynr was a Human female from the planet Bespin. The Galactic Empire forced her family to flee their homeworld, but she found a new home with the Rebel Alliance. As a naturally gifted pilot, there was no question that she would make it into the legendary starfighter unit known as Rogue Squadron, and she was recruited into its ranks by Commander Wedge Antilles when he rebuilt the Rogues from the ground up in 6.5 ABY.The Essential Chronology Her goal was to spend her time becoming the best pilot in the squadron. Ynr was very social with her fellow Rogues, including Corran Horn, Ooryl Qrygg, and Nawara Ven. Although she made it clear that romance was not high on her priority list, at some point she began a relationship with Ven. As the New Republic continued to fight the Galactic Civl War against the Empire, Rogue Squadron were intensely trained by Antilles over one month at Folor Base. After they were officially activated by Admiral Ackbar, Ynr served under the call sign Rogue Seven. She led Two Flight on their first official mission to the Morobe system, but the mission turned into a battle when they were pulled out of hyperspace by the Imperial Interdictor cruiser Black Asp. thumb|left|200px|Ynr and her fellows fly Z-95 Headhunters to help take down Coruscant's planetary shields. The cruiser fled after the Rogues dueled and destroyed several of its TIE interceptors, and the squadron next saw action in the Hensara system. There, they rescued the crew of the New Republic frigate Battle of Yavin, with One and Two Flights taking out Imperial ground forces inside Hensara III's atmosphere. Ynr's fellow Rogue Lujayne Forge was soon afterward killed in her sleep when stormtroopers raided their base on Talasea, and Ynr joined her fellows at Forge's memorial service aboard the medical frigate Reprieve. When Horn was confined to quarters following his brash actions in a strike at Vladet, Ynr, Ven, and fellow Rogue Erisi Dlarit paid him a visit. Ynr was personally grateful that his theatrics had taken out the Lancer-class frigate Ravager, which otherwise could have picked off a number of the Rogues' X-wings. The Rogues later captured Borleias from the Empire in a second strike after a disastrous first attempt, with Ynr flying one of the only six X-wings available to them for the risky attack. She helped destroy enemy TIE fighters while Antilles and Horn blew up one of the Imperial base's power conduits. When Rogue Squadron pursued the Vengeance Derra IV&mdash;a Dwarf Star-class freighter belonging to the forces of the Imperial Warlord Zsinj&mdash;to Mrisst, Ynr flew with Dlarit and Horn under Captain Aril Nunb in One Flight. The four of them took care of TIE fighters and interceptors while Two Flight used proton torpedoes to take down Vengeance Derra IV shields. Rogue Squadron were later inserted into Imperial-held Coruscant to bring down its planetary shields, but only after flying to Kessel to release a group of prisoners to aid them in their mission. Most of the Rogues flew cover for a landing zone on the planet while Antilles, Horn, and Ven negotiated the prisoners' release.X-Wing: Wedge's Gamble In Coruscant's Azure Dianoga Cantina, Ynr nearly got the undercover Rogues in trouble with stormtroopers when she refused to take lightly one trooper's xenophobia toward the Twi'lek Ven, but the group was saved by a sudden communication the trooper received in his helmet. The squadron ultimately used an orbital mirror control center to create a lightning storm which brought down the shields, while Ynr, Horn, Dlarit, fellow Rogue Pash Cracken, and their allies Inyri Forge and Asyr Sei'lar flew cover in Z-95 Headhunters. The Imperial capital went on to be conquered by New Republic forces with minimal resistance, but Horn was feared dead, with the Rogues' Executive officer, Tycho Celchu, as a murder suspect. It was early 7 ABY, and the New Republic now controlled the galactic capital, but the high-profile trial of Tycho Celchu left the Rogues feeling like they had little to celebrate. The deadly Krytos virus also began to ravage every non-human species on the planet. Rogue Squadron were thus tasked with stealing some bacta, a healing substance, from Warlord Zsinj at the Yag-prime space station. They launched alongside the Y-wings of Defender Wing, with Ynr now flying as Rogue Three. Her and Dlarit's role in the battle was to lead enemy TIEs away from the station, where Antilles and new Rogue Seilar could pick them off. The bacta was captured with ease. The Rogues' next mission was to Ryloth to obtain the spice ryll kor, following the New Republic Provisional Council's discovery that it could be used to help combat the virus's effects. Ryll Kor and bacta were later synthesized into rylca, a bona fide cure for the Krytos virus, but only after Ynr and the Rogues failed to obtain more bacta in the Alderaan system&mdash;Zsinj's Super Star Destroyer Iron Fist beat them there and destroyed the bacta-carrying transports of the Xucphra Corporation, to Ynr and her teammates' horror. Rogue Squadron's consolation prize was the cruiser Termagant, left behind by Zsinj. thumb|right|250px|Lusankya escapes from Coruscant. When the New Republic was tipped off about a planned attack on a bacta storage facility from the Palpatine Counter-Insurgency Front, a terrorist cell operating on Coruscant, Rogue Squadron mobilized to fly cover for a commando force. Most of the Rogues stayed low over Imperial City while Ynr and Dlarit flew up to the level of floating skyhooks to cut off any potential enemy escape. The terrorists' airspeeders and AT-STs were made short work of, but in the confusion, the Super Star Destroyer Lusankya suddenly emerged from Coruscant's cityscape. As it turned out, Imperial ruler Ysanne Isard had fled under the planet's surface instead of offworld when the New Republic had arrived. Corran Horn was also alive and had been held in the Lusankya namesake prison, but the Rogue managed to escape before Isard's ship blasted out of its hiding place. He burst into Celchu's trial to declare the man innocent of his murder while meanwhile, Ynr and the rest of the Rogues watched Isard and her massive Star Destroyer escape the New Republic's clutches. Ynr's wingmate Erisi Dlarit also joined Isard in her flight, revealing herself to be a spy in Rogue Squadron's ranks. Minus the double agent, the Rogues flew various pursuit and cover missions against remaining Palpatine Counter-Insurgency Front cells over the next several days. Despite the Lusankya getaway, a ceremony was held to welcome back Horn and to publicly exonerate Celchu. New Republic Chief of State Mon Mothma publicly presented all of Rogue Squadron with the Coruscant Star of Valor, a newly created award intended to be the military's highest possible honor. At the ceremony, the pilots were less than impressed when they learned that the New Republic would not pursue Isard to her new power base on Thyferra, a major bacta-production center, as it did not want to interfere with a planet's internal politics. They promptly resigned their commissions, with Ynr eagerly speaking for both herself and Ven when she added her name to the hat. The now-independent group of Antilles's Rogues received help from various allies and adoring private citizens, and they operated out of the Yag-prime space station as they pursued the Bacta War against Isard. Their first maneuvers were two separate raids on bacta convoys from her, first in the Chorax system and next in a system with a red dwarf. In the latter engagement, Ynr and Inyri Forge&mdash;now flying as Rogues Five and Six respectively&mdash;escorted the Bacta Tanker Xucphra Meander to Coruscant after it surrendered to the combined forces of Rogue Squadron and twelve Twi'lek Chir'daki fighters, the latest converts to Antilles's cause.X-Wing: The Bacta War Isard responded to the raids by destroying a colony on Halanit to which the Rogues had diverted some of her bacta, forcing a change in the squadron's tactics. After striking bacta-producing facilities on Qretu 5, they launched a series of hit-and-fade attacks on the Bacta Cartel. Whenever they were on Yag-prime, Ynr and Ven spent most of their time together, but in the field, the Rogues narrowly survived an ambush by Isard's forces in the Alderaan Graveyard. Ynr was later called on to join a mission to Elshandruu Pica where the Rogues convinced Sair Yonka, Captain of Isard's Star Destroyer Avarice, to defect to their cause. thumb|left|250px|Rogue Squadron win the Bacta War. Alongside Antilles, Horn, Darklighter, Qrygg, and Qrygg's Gand ally Vviir Wiamdi, Ynr made her way to Yonka's cottage near the Picavil spaceport. While she and Horn secured one side of the building, Antilles and Darklighter entered through the back and laid out their proposal to their open-eared target. Isard, enraged by the turncoat, initiated a program to round up and execute thirty thousand of Thyferra's native Vratix, whose Ashern commandos were actively resisting her regime. Antilles knew it was time for an endgame, and the first step of his plan was to reveal to Isard that Yag-prime was the Rogues' secret base. To accomplish this, he sent Ynr, Horn, Darklighter, and Forge, along with their ally Mirax Terrik in her Pulsar Skate, out to escort to the station an arms delivery from the smuggler Talon Karrde. A spy in Karrde's organization passed the information on to Isard. Ynr and the other Rogues scanned Karrde's convoy for life-forms to ensure there were no hidden Imperial troops, and they then provided their escort. Antilles later gathered all of his pilots for a briefing and told them to expect the imminent arrival of Isard's forces. Antilles's forces abandoned Yag-prime as soon as Isard's Lusankya and Virulence showed up, and they were taken to Thyferra aboard the Avarice. Ynr and the rest of the pilots dogfought the TIE fighters of the Thyferran Home Defense Corps while Antilles's capital ships took on the Lusankya, which had left its own TIE complement at Yag-prime alongside the captured Virulence. Between waves of enemy fighters, the Rogues joined the attack runs on the Lusankya, hammering it with proton torpedoes and concussion missiles&mdash;including ones launched from their freighters that were slaved to the X-wings' telemetry. The battle was won when the captured Virulence arrived carrying three squadrons of Pash Cracken's A-wings, and both Isard and Erisi Dlarit were believed killed while trying to flee the planet. Aboard the Lusankya, Antilles asked his pilots if they wanted to return to the New Republic, and Ynr was quick to agree. Ven had lost the use of his leg during the battle, however, and he decided to take over as the Rogues' new Executive Officer, rather than continue to fly an X-wing. When Rogue Squadron returned to Coruscant, their twelve X-wings were met in the sky by another twelve, led by Rogue veteran Derek "Hobbie" Klivian and claiming to be the real Rogue Squadron.X-Wing: Wraith Squadron As Klivian's pilots escorted Antilles's Rogues down to Imperial Plaza, both squadrons engaged in aerial maneuvers, attempting to outdo each other and dazzling spectators both below and watching live on the HoloNet. Upon disembarking, the Rogues were met with confetti, cheerful New Republic diplomats, and roars of appreciation from the crowd. They were ushered onto a stage as Senator Leia Organa of the Provisional Council gave a speech welcoming them back, and the pilots learned that their resignations had been "creatively misfiled"&mdash;the Bacta War was, retroactively, being officially sanctioned by New Republic High Command. Klivian's ersatz Rogue Squadron, meanwhile, had been put together to be a visible group of Rogues for the purposes of morale. thumb|right|225PX|Nawara Ven, Ynr's husband Rogues old and new had a raucous party that night, and immediately thereafter, Rogue Squadron were assigned to the next big New Republic campaign: the Hunt for Zsinj. Several months into the campaign, Ynr was no longer flying as a Rogue,X-Wing: Solo Command and by 9 ABY, she had married Ven and resigned from the squadron in order to start a family. That year, she and Ven attended a party for the Rogues that Admiral Ackbar organized when they returned to Coruscant after the end of the Thrawn campaign. The party was interrupted by the arrival of Urlor Sette, a prisoner from Lusankya who had been dispatched to send a taunting message to Corran Horn.X-Wing: Isard's Revenge In the year 43 ABY, Ynr was summoned to Kessel by Lando Calrissian, who owned glitterstim mines on the rocky planet. They joined a bevy of other retired pilots at the Calrissian-Nunb Mines to hear out the plan of action: navigate the mines in their starfighters and places explosives throughout the caves, which, when detonated, would halt a series of groundquakes that were threatening to destroy the entire planet. Ynr flew an Eta-5 interceptor during the operation, which was armed with missiles by Inyri Forge's great-nephew Drathan. Mid-mission, while her interceptor was being reloaded, Ynr chatted with Antilles and offered to swap fighters with the interested general. He eagerly agreed, and Ynr took over flying his X-wing. The operation was a success, and two days later, its participants gathered in the mines' main cafeteria to celebrate. Rhysati Ynr was created by Michael A. Stackpole and first appeared in his 1996 novel X-Wing: Rogue Squadron. She played a prominent role throughout the first four entries in the X-Wing series, but she was rarely mentioned in later Star Wars reference books that spotlighted the Rogues' adventures. Notably, she was not featured in the Star Wars Insider 59 article Who's Who in Rogue Squadron, published in 2002, and the only official picture of her comes from the Japanese edition of the Rogue Squadron novel. *X-Wing: Rogue Squadron *X-Wing: Wedge's Gamble *X-Wing: The Krytos Trap *X-Wing: The Bacta War *X-Wing: Wraith Squadron *X-Wing: Isard's Revenge *I, Jedi *Fate of the Jedi: Outcast *Star Wars Encyclopedia *A Guide to the Star Wars Universe, Third Edition, Revised and Expanded *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Antilles's Rogues Category:Bespinites Category:Females Category:Humans Category:Rogue Squadron personnel