37758
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Larrim
Larrim
10736

Larrim was a Twi'lek male who lived on the Outer Rim planet Taris during the Jedi Civil War between the Galactic Republic and the Sith Empire. They ran a kiosk in the South Apartments of the Upper City, where they sold various goods to residents and passers-by. In 3956 BBY, following the attack on the Republic Hammerhead-class cruiser Endar Spire by a Sith fleet, Larrim approached a survivor of the attack and former Sith Lord, Revan, who had the memories of a Republic soldier. Larrim explained who they were and advertised the items they had for sale to Revan. thumb|left|325px|Larrim ran a kiosk that sold mostly to non-humans in Taris's Upper City. Larrim lived on the Outer Rim world Taris during the Jedi Civil War between the Galactic Republic and the Sith Empire. The Human residents of the ecumenopolis were speciesist, and it was illegal for non-Humans to live in the Upper City. Despite this, several non-humans lived in the Upper City's South Apartments, as they were the only ones who would rent in such a run-down location. The Tarisian authorities found it to be too much hassle to enforce the law, and did not persecute the aliens living there. Larrim operated a small kiosk in the apartments, where they sold supplies to the local residents, including a rare, expensive, and hi-tech personal energy shield. In 3956 BBY,The Essential Atlas places the events of Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic in 3956 BBY. a battle between the Republic Hammerhead-class cruiser Endar Spire and a Sith fleet raged above the planet. The battle resulted in the destruction of the Endar Spire, with several escape pods from the ship crashing on Taris's surface. One of these pods contained the Jedi Padawan Bastila Shan, whose battle meditation skill made her a valuable part of the Republic's war effort. In an attempt to capture Shan after the battle overhead, Darth Malak, the incumbent Dark Lord of the Sith, ordered a planet-wide occupation and quarantine, preventing anyone from landing on or leaving the city world, and hurting many businesses operating on the planet. Despite this, the Sith authorities also considered the non-humans living illegally in the Upper City to not be worth the trouble, and they too did not enforce Taris's speciesist laws. thumb|right|240px|Larrim directed Revan's questions to Kadir (pictured), the janitor of the building. Former Sith Lord Revan, whose memory had been destroyed and replaced with those of a Republic soldier, was aboard the Endar Spire during the battle and boarded an escape pod with Republic war hero Carth Onasi. The pod landed in Taris's Upper City, with the crash knocking Revan unconscious. Onasi dragged Revan to the South Apartments, where the two hid in an abandoned apartment for several days before Revan fully regained consciousness. When Revan woke up, the pair decided to search for Shan before the Sith found her. Larrim, at their kiosk in the South Apartments, approached Revan when heKnights of the Old Republic Campaign Guide walked by. Larrim introduced themself to Revan and told him about the energy shield they had in stock. Revan asked about the shield, and Larrim explained that it protected from energy attacks, including blasters and lightsabers, but not from ion blasters. They also told Revan about the rumors of the shield being derived from an Echani design. Revan asked Larrim about the kiosk and sought information about the plight of the non-humans living illegally in the Upper City. Larrim gladly described their business and explained the humanocentric laws of Taris. They were, however, reluctant to answer too many questions unrelated to business for fear of losing the trust of potential buyers. They instead directed Revan to speak to the janitor, Kadir, whom they described as "bordering on senile." Larrim was a green-skinned and gray-eyed Twi'lek male. They wore their lekku wrapped around their neck. Larrim feared losing the trust of their customers and avoided answering questions unrelated to themself or their business. Despite this, they were willing to both buy from and sell to Revan, who was a new customer. Larrim was unafraid of being caught by Tarisian authorities or the Sith occupiers, knowing they had long ago turned a blind eye to the South Apartments. In addition to speaking the Huttese language, Larrim was able to understand spoken Galactic Basic Standard. Larrim wore a green tunic with yellow accents and white pants. They also wore a brown and white utility belt and boots that were white, yellow, and brown. Larrim owned a large amount of equipment that they sold to the residents of the South Apartments. Their supplies included medpacs, computer spikes, droid repair parts, armor suits, stealth field generators, and battle stimulants. They also owned a surplus of weapons, which included swords, vibroblades, stun batons, quarterstaffs, and a variety of blasters, grenades, and mines. In addition, they owned a single, expensive energy shield that they attempted to sell to passers-by. Larrim appeared as a non-player character in the 2003 video game Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic, developed by BioWare. If the player walks by Larrim's kiosk, they will speak to Revan in an unavoidable encounter. The player may select several dialogue choices, but the conversation does not progress any plot or quest, nor does it change the player's alignment. If Carth Onasi is in the player's party when they encounter Larrim, he will comment about the personal energy shields being useless against vibroblades, causing the Republic to train their soldiers in melee combat. If the player speaks to Larrim while dressed in Sith armor, they will wish Revan a good day and ensure they do not want any trouble with the Sith. *Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic *Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic: Prima's Official Strategy Guide Category:Business owners and executives Category:Individuals with unspecified pronouns Category:Males Category:Tarisians Category:Twi'leks