37805
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Niklos
Niklos
4350

Niklos was a male Human who frequented the Upper City Cantina on Taris during the time of the Jedi Civil War, claiming to be the "unofficial champion of the pazaak circuit on Taris." He used to have frequent games with fellow player Gelrood, until the latter was banned from the Upper Cantina on suspicion of cheating. Niklos was a gambler who resided on the planet Taris during the Jedi Civil War. He was a patron of the Upper City Cantina, where he spent his time playing pazaak. He used to play against fellow player Gelrood, until the latter was banned from the cantina on suspicion of cheating. Following this, Niklos was unable to find a rival who could match his skill in the game. In 3956 BBY,Knights of the Old Republic Campaign Guide Former Sith Lord and redeemed Jedi Revan, who was on Taris in search of Jedi Knight Bastila Shan, visited the Upper City Cantina and bought a pazaak deck from the retired player Garouk. Niklos was a Human male with green eyes and fair skin. He had short brown hair and a beard of the same color. Niklos viewed himself as a pazaak champion. When he won, he claimed it was his skill, but when he lost he would claim that his opponent was simply lucky. When Revan beat Niklos five times in a row, Niklos accused him of cheating. From then on he continuously called Revan a cheater and refused to play any more pazaak games with him. thumb|right|150px|The appearance of Niklos in the Xbox version. Niklos appeared as a non-playable character in the 2003 video game Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic, developed by BioWare. In the original Xbox release of the game, Niklos appears with a different head model that has black hair and blue eyes. If the player beats Niklos in pazaak five times in a row without losing, he will accuse the player of cheating and will refuse to play pazaak anymore. If Mission Vao is in your party she will comment on his accusation and call him a sore loser. *Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic *Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic: Prima's Official Strategy Guide Category:Gamblers Category:Humans Category:Males Category:Tarisians