37958
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Doran_Sarkin-Tainer
Doran Sarkin-Tainer
5448

Doran Sarkin-Tainer was the son of Jedi Knight Tyria Sarkin and Wraith Squadron pilot Kell Tainer. He was named after Kell's original family name, Doran. He was handsome and square-jawed, and described as "the size of a dwarf Wookiee.". Prior to and during the Yuuzhan Vong War, Tyria wandered the galaxy with her son, teaching him the ways of the Force while her husband Kell worked with the Wraiths. Doran and his parents joined the other Jedi on Zonama Sekot at the end of the Yuuzhan Vong War. During the Second Galactic Civil War, Doran was one of the Jedi Knights involved in the attempted kidnapping of Thrackan Sal-Solo from his mansion on Corellia, as part of Team Tauntaun alongside Tahiri Veila and Tiu Zax. They infiltrated the mansion disguised as utility workers, but discovered it was a trap, with dozens of guards, combat probots, and YVH 1 droids guarding the room where Sal-Solo was supposed to be. Veila ordered a withdrawal, but Doran came up with the idea that they could disguise a Protocol droid as a dead Jedi, allowing one of them to remain behind and gather information. Zax pointed out he was too large for the task, and volunteered to do so instead. After preparing the droid, Doran and Veila carried it out of Sal-Solo's mansion and hijacked a groundspeeder, heading to the Behareh Spaceport to meet up with Team Purella. Upon arriving, Doran reassured Jaina Solo that the body in the back was not what it looked like, and explained the situation to her, guessing that they had been ambushed as well judging by the injuries several of the other Jedi had. Jaina was annoyed about leaving a team member behind, but decided that it was good to get information from Sal-Solo's home. She ordered Doran to get Bacta patches for Zekk's burns and something to help Kolir Hu'lya's injured mouth, while Thann Mithric secured a vehicle for them to escape in. Mithric secured a shuttle, and Doran and the other Jedi escaped the planet after being escorted by Hardpoint Squadron. In 43 ABY, Doran was one of several Jedi brought in to keep the media and Galactic Alliance Security at bay during the apprehension of Valin Horn, arriving with Jedi Master Kyp Durron to help secure the psychotic Jedi.Fate of the Jedi: Outcast In 44 ABY, Doran participated in the rescue attempt of Valin and Jysella Horn. He and Jedi Apprentice Bandy Geffer piloted an airspeeder disguised as a HoloNet News vehicle to help extract "Team Saav'etu", "Team Solo", and the Horn siblings.Fate of the Jedi: Vortex Doran seemed to have inherited his father's tendency for risky and unorthodox ideas. Doran, as a Jedi, could manipulate the Force. *The New Jedi Order: Enemy Lines I: Rebel Dream *The New Jedi Order: The Unifying Force *Legacy of the Force: Betrayal *Fate of the Jedi: Outcast *Fate of the Jedi: Vortex *Fate of the Jedi: Apocalypse *X-Wing: Mercy Kill *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Galactic Alliance individuals Category:Humans Category:Individuals with he/him pronouns Category:Jedi Knights of the New Jedi Order Category:Males