37979
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Galduran_Calrissian
Galduran Calrissian
4705

Galduran Calrissian was a male individual living before the time of the Jedi Civil War. Sometime prior to the year 3956 BBY, he gained infamy by operating a smuggling ring from within Hutt Space. Calrissian's smuggling ring was not sanctioned by the Hutts, however, and he was eventually cornered. He was subsequently forced to sell many of his possessions, including his personal utility belt, to avoid being killed. Galduran Calrissian was a male smuggler who operated a smuggling ring in Hutt Space before the time of the Jedi Civil War. However, the Hutts, the species of sentient gastropods who were in control of Hutt Space,The New Essential Guide to Alien Species had never sanctioned Calrissian's smuggling ring, and his name became a hindrance due to the infamy of his organization. He was eventually driven into a situation in which he had to sell many of his personal items to keep from becoming the last of the Calrissian line. Sometime before the Jedi Civil War, Calrissian owned a utility belt that could be worn around a humanoid's waist. When he was forced to sell off a great deal of his possessions, including many of his personal effects, his utility belt was one of items that he sold. By 3956 BBY,The Knights of the Old Republic Campaign Guide dates the events of Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic to 3956 BBY. his belt was owned by a merchant named Crattis Yurkal, who was selling the belt for 3000 credits at Aratech Mercantile, a shop that he maintained at the Jedi Enclave on the planet Dantooine. Galduran Calrissian was first mentioned in Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic, a 2003 BioWare video game. He was only mentioned in the game through the description of his belt, which was a one-of-a-kind item that the player could buy on Dantooine from Crattis Yurkal. An entry on Calrissian's belt that was included in Star Wars Knights of the Old Republic: Prima's Official Strategy Guide by Prima Games had his first name spelled "Garduran." His name was also spelled this way in the appendix of the book.Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic: Prima's Official Strategy Guide This article was written with the assumption that the spelling in the game was correct. Galduran Calrissian shared his last name with Lando Calrissian, a character first created for the film Star Wars: Episode V The Empire Strikes Back. However, no official link was made between the two characters. *Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic *Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic: Prima's Official Strategy Guide Category:Individuals of unspecified species Category:Males Category:Smugglers