38046
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Sol%27aa
Sol'aa
4324

Sol'aa was an orange-skinned, blue-eyed Twi'lek who lived on the pastoral Outer Rim planet Dantooine during the Jedi Civil War in 3956 BBY.The Essential Atlas places the events of Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic, which includes Sol'aa's appearance, in 3956 BBY. They lived in a room located on the north end of the Dantooine Jedi Enclave and occasionally played the gambling card game pazaak. Sol'aa wore a white tunic, a blue undertunic, beige pants, gray gloves, brown boots, and a red belt. They understood Basic but spoke in Huttese. While at the Enclave, Sol'aa met the former Sith Lord Revan, who was training as a Jedi after losing his memories. Sol'aa recognized Revan as a proficient pazaak player and offered a game. When Revan asked them about their identity, Sol'aa was dismissive, hoping to maintain their privacy. Despite the attitude, Sol'aa was still open to playing pazaak with Revan and offered to sell some of their cards. Revan defeated Sol'aa at pazaak five times, and the Twi'lek instead wagered some extra cards as they had run out of credits. thumb|right|130px|Sol'aa, as he appears in the Xbox version Sol'aa appears as a non-player character in the 2003 video game Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic, developed by BioWare. If the player attempts to play pazaak without a deck, Sol'aa will provide one. The conversation with Sol'aa is optional and does not progress the plot of the game or change the player's alignment. If the player defeats Sol'aa at pazaak five times in a row, the latter starts wagering cards as opposed to credits. Alternatively, the player could lose to Sol'aa, prompting the Twi'lek to ask if the former wants to try again. Interactions with Sol'aa become unavailable after the player finds four of the five Rakatan Star Maps and boards the Leviathan, the flagship of Sith Admiral Saul Karath. While the player is aboard the Leviathan, the attack on Dantooine commences, and the player is unable to return to the planet. In the Xbox version of Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic, Sol'aa is green-skinned and gray-eyed. Sol'aa wears a brown tunic with white accents, along with orange pants and white boots. *Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic Category:Dantooinians Category:Individuals of unspecified gender Category:Individuals with unspecified pronouns Category:Twi'leks