38043
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Rilka
Rilka
4122

Rilka was a Human female farmer who lived on the agrarian Outer Rim planet of Dantooine. During the Jedi Civil War, a conflict between the Galactic Republic and Darth Revan's Sith Empire, she lived on one of Dantooine's northern farms with her husband, Gar. In 3956 BBY,The Essential Atlas places the events of Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic, which includes Revan trials, in 3956 BBY. Juhani fled the Enclave shortly before Revan completed his trials, placing the events in the same year. Cathar Jedi padawan Juhani, believing she had killed her Master Quatra in anger, fled to an ancient grove used by Jedi to meditate. The grove became tainted by Juhani's emotions, causing Kath hounds in the area to become aggressive, even attacking some settlers. A few weeks after the destruction of the Outer Rim ecumenopolis of Taris,Revan arrived on Dantooine immediately following the destruction of Taris. In-game dialogue places the beginning of Revan's trials, where he gains access to the courtyard and thus Rilka, a few weeks after his arrival. Rilka and her husband traveled to the Jedi Enclave on Dantooine seeking an audience with the Jedi Council there. They wanted to petition the Council for protection from the Kath hounds and Mandalorian raiders that had been afflicting the settlers for some time. While waiting in the Enclave's courtyard, Rilka was approached by former Dark Lord of the Sith Revan, who had lost his memories and was retraining as a Jedi at the Enclave. She told Revan that she wasn't good at explaining things and directed him to Gar instead. While he was speaking with Gar, she mentioned that it was a pleasure to meet Revan. Rilka appeared as a non-player character in the 2003 video game Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic, developed by BioWare. Interactions with her are optional and do not affect alignment, nor do they progress any plot or quest. *Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic *Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic: Prima's Official Strategy Guide Category:Dantooinians Category:Farmers Category:Females Category:Humans Category:Individuals with unspecified pronouns