38428
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Temple_Security_Force
Temple Security Force
12208

|subgroup=Jedi Peacekeeper |headquarters=*Jedi TempleThe Jedi Path: A Manual for Students of the Force *Jedi Outpost Legacy of the Force: Revelation *New Jedi Temple |locations=Temple Precinct, Coruscant |formed= |founded=Before 3653 BBYStar Wars: The Old Republic |fragmented= |reorganized= |dissolved=19 BBYStar Wars Episode III: Revenge of the Sith Coruscant Nights I: Jedi Twilight |restored=c. 29 ABY |affiliation=*Jedi Order *New Jedi Order }} The Temple Security Force was the security police of the Jedi Temple and the Temple Precinct surrounding it on Coruscant. Though the name was traditionally and generally applied to the non-Force-sensitive soldiers and police officers, Temple Security also included the Jedi Peacekeepers and the Jedi Temple Guards that were stationed on Coruscant. When not researching crime and assisting other jurisdictions in solving cases, the Jedi Peacekeepers would also patrol and could specialize as snipers and brutes. The Jedi Gate Master would supervise groups of Padawans to guard the entrances of Temple during the day and Jedi Knights from the Security Force to stand watch at night. At the time of the clone wars, it is known that the number of Security Forces was 500 soldiers. The Temple Security Force, specifically those who were not Force sensitive, protected the Jedi Temple as well as providing police services for the citizens living in the Temple Precinct that surrounded the Temple. They fought side by side with the Jedi Order in defending the Temple during several conflicts including the Sacking of Coruscant during the Great Galactic War and the invasion of the Temple at the end of the Clone Wars in which many lost their lives, including Cin Drallig and Jurokk. During the days of the Galactic Empire, those who survived Order 66, which instructed all Jedi and their associates to be killed, joined Whiplash and the Alliance to Restore the Republic and continued their duties by helping Jedi escape from the Great Jedi Purge. With the rebuilding of the Jedi Temple under Luke Skywalker's New Jedi Order, the Temple Security Force returned to their posts to protect the Jedi and their sanctuary from any threat. This included attacks by Galactic Alliance soldiers such as the Galactic Alliance Guard and Galactic Alliance Security; both from the very government the Jedi were to protect and defend. The history of the Temple Security Force was first written down in The Jedi Path: A Manual for Students of the Force by Jedi Master Crix Sunburris, a well respected Jedi Guardian and ace pilot. thumb|left|200px|[[Jedi Snipers stood guard atop the Temple]] The Temple Security Force was a security police force on Coruscant tasked with protecting the Jedi Temple and its successor, the Temple's Jedi occupants and treasures, and those civilians visiting or living in the surrounding Temple Precinct. Temple Security was divided into two groups. The largest and most visible group was composed of non-Force-sensitive beings. Trained as police and soldiers, their ranks included some former Jedi who had been unable to pass their Jedi Initiate Trials yet wanted to continue serving the Jedi Order. Though the name "Temple Security" was not always applied to them, the second group consisted of Jedi who had trained as Peacekeepers, a specialization under the field of study of the Jedi Guardian. Many Peacekeepers assisted the Coruscant Security Force or studied and tracked criminal activity. Those Peacekeepers who patrolled the Temple itself could also specialize as snipers and brutes. The Jedi Gate Master was tasked with overseeing the security of the entrances to the Temple including the Main Entrance, the Public Entrance, and the Reception Hall. Along with the regular security officers, the Gate Master would also supervise rotating groups of Padawans who guarded the Temple entrances by day and Jedi Knights who stood guard at night. Throughout the Temple, agents were deployed to safeguard various chambers. Two officers were regularly posted at the central security station where they monitored the security cameras running throughout the complex. During the Sacking of Coruscant of 3653 BBY, the Temple Security Forces attempted to help the Jedi defend the Temple from an assault of Sith and Imperial soldiers led by Darth Malgus, though they seemed to be no match for Force-sensitive opponents. Agents were deployed to the bowels of the Temple in 44 BBY when Master Qui-Gon Jinn discovered the murderous Dark Jedi Xanatos lurking in the water tunnels. While Xanatos escaped, Security recovered his mode of transportation in to the waterway and confiscated it.Jedi Apprentice: The Captive Temple Several years later, at the height of the Clone Wars the Security Force was under the command of Chief of Security Temple battlemaster Cin Drallig. At the end of the war, the Republic's duplicitous Supreme Chancellor Palpatine issued Order 66 ordering the Grand Army of the Republic to invade the Temple and kill its occupants. Remaining loyal to the Jedi, the non-Force-users and Jedi alike fought against the 501st Legion during Operation: Knightfall until their numbers almost completely diminished. Those that escaped with their lives joined the underground group known as Whiplash. Following the reestablishment of the Order, Grand Master Luke Skywalker decided to reinstate the tradition of a security force at the Temple and began to build up a civilian group. While it is unknown if Gate Masters were appointed in the New Order, officers of the Order were once more tested and proved loyal following assaults by both Chief of State Jacen Solo and Natasi Daala. During the Second Galactic Civil War, the security forces retreated with the Order to the Jedi Outpost on Endor to aid in the protection of the Initiates there. Years later in 43 ABY the security of the Temple was still active as new security measures were put in place to protect against invasion. During the incident at the Temple caused by Jysella Horn's Force psychosis, Security was called to the Jedi Archives and the main entrance to capture her. However, using a form of flow-walking, Horn escaped.Fate of the Jedi: Omen thumb|right|120px|Temple Security from Star Wars: Battlefront II. In Star Wars: Battlefront II, the Temple Security Forces appear in the Knighfall mission of the Rise of the Empire campaign. In the game, the Temple Soldiers wore uniforms closely resembling those worn by soldiers of the Royal Naboo Security Forces, except in all grey and with slightly different hats. Like the Naboo soldiers seen in the next mission and in the previous game, they are equipped with blaster rifles which bear a striking resemblance to the DH-17 blaster rifle that fires green bolts. In Star Wars: The Old Republic, the Temple Security Force were initially suggested to be members of the Republic Special Forces Division, but this has proven to be false. While the Republic Special Forces weren't established until after the Treaty of Coruscant, the Temple Security Force were shown to exist (at the Sacking of Coruscant) before the treaty was ever signed. *The Old Republic: Deceived *Star Wars: The Old Republic *Jedi Apprentice: The Captive Temple *Jedi Apprentice: The Ties That Bind *Star Wars: Battlefront II *Star Wars: Revenge of the Sith novelization *Star Wars: Episode III Revenge of the Sith video game *Coruscant Nights I: Jedi Twilight *Legacy of the Force: Revelation *Legacy of the Force: Revelation abridged audiobook *Fate of the Jedi: Omen *Fate of the Jedi: Abyss *Fate of the Jedi: Backlash *Fate of the Jedi: Allies *Fate of the Jedi: Vortex *The Jedi Path: A Manual for Students of the Force Category:Galactic Alliance military units Category:Galactic Republic law enforcement Category:Jedi Order organizations Category:New Jedi Order organizations