38542
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Nigel_Nivers
Nigel Nivers
7322

Grand Moff Nigel Nivers was a Human male who served the Galactic Empire during the Galactic Civil War. In the weeks after the defeat at the Battle of Endor, Nivers became one of many Imperial warlords vying for power, controlling a region of space in the Outer Rim Territories. He moved to subjugate the planet Tandankin, a world within his domain, and conscript its population as workers, but his efforts were thwarted by the members of the New Republic Rogue Squadron. Nivers's brief occupation of Tandankin collapsed when the Grand Moff was detained by the New Republic. Nigel Nivers was a Human male who served as a Grand Moff of the Galactic Empire. Following the Battle of Endor, a significant Rebel Alliance victory in the Galactic Civil War, Nivers became a warlord, just as several other officers had in the wake of Emperor Palpatine's death. A few weeks after Endor, Nivers moved to take control of the planet Tandankin, an Outer Rim worldThe Essential Atlas located in the region of space under his authority. After claiming the world in the name of the Empire, he announced to Tandankin's citizens that they would either serve him as workers or face severe consequences. His speech was cut short, however, when the X-wing starfighters of the New Republic's Rogue Squadron suddenly appeared in the skies above Tandankin and opened fire on Nivers's forces, much to the excitement of the planet's beleaguered populace. After a relatively short engagement, which saw the destruction of the Grand Moff's force of TIE fighters before they could even deploy, the Rebels managed to capture Nivers and the remaining Imperials. The Grand Moff's short-lived occupation of the planet, less than a day old, was brought to an end. Nivers's rival, Warlord Zsinj, absorbed what was left of the Grand Moff's territory into his own domain, while many of Nivers's followers eventually joined up with the forces of self-proclaimed Supreme Commander Ennix Devian in the Spawn Nebula. A white-haired Grand Moff of the Empire who became a warlord after the Emperor's death, Nivers controlled an area of space that included Tandankin. When he moved to impose authority over the population of the world, Nivers declared that the citizens would either work for the Imperial regime or suffer under it. Grand Moff Nivers appeared in the X-Wing Rogue Squadron Special, a comic book written by Ryder Windham that was originally released in 1996 as part of an Apple Jacks promotion by the Kellogg Company. His first name was revealed in the Star Wars Blog article "The Imperial Warlords: Despoilers of an Empire." Nivers was briefly mentioned in the original version of the Star Wars Insider 66 article Who's Who: Imperial Grand Admirals, titled Dirty Dozen: The Imperial Grand Admirals and slated for inclusion in an issue of the Star Wars Gamer magazine."Dirty Dozen: The Imperial Grand Admirals" In Dirty Dozen, Nivers was noted as being one of the "worthy adversaries" whom Grand Admiral Rufaan Tigellinus saw among the Grand Moffs. The reference was cut by the time Who's Who was released in 2003. *X-Wing Rogue Squadron Special *Star Wars Encyclopedia *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Grand Moffs of the Galactic Empire Category:Humans Category:Imperial warlords Category:Males