38807
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/F-187_fusioncutter
F-187 fusioncutter
5310

}} The F-187 fusioncutter was a handheld cutting tool produced by SoroSuub during the Clone Wars. The F-187 fusioncutter model was popular among engineers during the time of the Galactic Republic and the Galactic Empire. The F-187 was a model of fusioncutter manufactured by Sorosuub Corporation. Designed for use in repairing vehicles and starships, it was a handheld cutting torch that produced a high-energy plasma beam that was able to cut through metals, duraplast, and reinforced materials. The cutting beam was variable, and could be adjusted in length from one to twenty centimeters, and its width could be as narrow as a millimeter or up to six centimeters wide. Holes could be punched through materials but an extendable drill bit, and the entire tool could be attached to a jig connected to a droid brain. This allowed the F-187 to be used as an automated cutting tool. The fuel reserve for the tool allowed for an hour of continuous operation. Larger fuel cylinders could be attached to extend the tool's operational time. Such was the versatility and popularity of the F-187, it was used by a variety of factions during the Clone Wars and the Galactic Civil War, from clone engineers to Rebel pilots. The fusioncutter was often used to slice into a vehicle, allowing the wielder to gain control of it from its pilot.Star Wars: Battlefront II The F-187 serves as a tool in the Battlefront video game series. It has also appeared in the Star Wars: The Clone Wars tie-in comic Repel All Boarders! thumb|180px|F-187 in Battlefront. *Star Wars: Battlefront *Star Wars: Battlefront II *Star Wars Battlefront: Elite Squadron *Star Wars Battlefront: Renegade Squadron *Rebellion 1 *The Essential Guide to Weapons and Technology *Star Wars Battlefront: Prima Official Game Guide *The New Essential Guide to Weapons and Technology *Star Wars Battlefront II: Prima Official Game Guide *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia *Star Wars: Age of Rebellion Core Rulebook Category:Alliance to Restore the Republic Category:Confederacy of Independent Systems equipment Category:Cutting tools Category:Galactic Empire Category:Galactic Republic Category:SoroSuub Corporation products