39003
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Krake_Data_Vault
Krake Data Vault
6349

The Krake Data Vault was an Imperial data processing center on the world known only as Krake's Planet, which held complete personnel records for the Imperial Military during the Galactic Civil War. A naturally grown crystallized structure formed by a species of slugs native to Krake's Planet, the data vault was located astride a deep ravine and was heavily fortified. However, Rebel agents Luke Skywalker and Chewbacca managed to infiltrate, and later destroy, the nearly impregnable facility in 3 ABY. thumb|left|250px|Krake Data Vault. Located on Krake's Planet, a small, rocky world in the Outer Rim's Demetras sector, was the Krake Data Vault. The Galactic Empire heavily fortified the data vault, which hosted complete personnel records for the entire Imperial Military during the Galactic Civil War. The data vault was located within a massive tunnel system created by a species of burrowing slugs through the planet's surface, and had been shaped into a sort of massive crystal cocoon by the native creatures. The vault itself sat astride a deep ravine, and the Imperials further defended the valuable facility by covering the entire area with a powerful force field. Imperial engineers also further shaped the cocoon structure itself to control the movements of the slugs, which were large and vicious enough to pose a threat to infiltrators. However, the vault wasn't completely impregnable&mdash;outside agents could sneak into the facility through an opening into the kitchen level. The vault had a massive, highly interconnected computer system&mdash;essentially a mind of its own&mdash;that was fully accessible from any terminal in the facility with the right passcodes. The vault hosted a sizable complement of stormtroopers, with full living facilities for those posted on the planet. thumb|right|350px|Luke Skywalker battles stormtroopers at the data vault. Built out of a structure created by the burrowing slugs native to Krake's Planet, Krake Data Vault was further shaped and commandeered by the Galactic Empire as a major information hub, holding complete personnel records for the Imperial Military during the height of the Galactic Civil War. In 3 ABY, the vault was infiltrated by Rebel agents Luke Skywalker and Chewbacca, who intended on downloading data proving Rebel pilot Shira Brie had in fact been an Imperial double agent&mdash;Skywalker had recently been disgraced after shooting Brie down in an apparent friendly fire incident. The Sith Lord Darth Vader reasoned that Krake's Planet would be Skywalker's destination and tipped the facility's stormtroopers off to their arrival, but Skywalker's use of a terminal on the kitchen area&mdash;instead of heading straight to the main database&mdash;caught the Imperials by surprise and ruined a planned ambush. Instead, the Imperials pressed the battle to the Rebels where they were, forcing Skywalker and Chewbacca to split up. Skywalker escaped to their starship, the Millennium Falcon, before realizing that Chewbacca had to still be trapped within. From inside the ship, Skywalker managed to mind trick an officer in the vault's security center to lowering the facility's protective force shield, allowing Skywalker to fly his ship close and retrieve the Wookiee. With Chewbacca safely aboard, Skywalker used the Falcon guns to destroy the entire data vault. Krake Data Vault appeared in Star Wars (1977) 63, written by David Michelinie and Walt Simonson, illustrated by Tom Palmer and released in 1982. *Star Wars (1977) 63 *Star Wars (1977) 65 *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Demetras sector locations Category:Galactic Empire locations