39134
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Zyak
Zyak
5166

Captain Zyak was an officer of the Imperial Navy trained in air-traffic control. As of 5 ABY, he was stationed in Fuel City on Sulon, where he considered he was wasting his life. While he was on duty, the HWK-290 light freighter Moldy Crow came to the City and his scanners showed that it made an inexplicable stop at station six.Dark Forces: Rebel Agent audio drama Zyak made a harsh remark to the pilot, ordering her to leave. The pilot claimed to have come off from Tatooine and was lost while looking for Barons Hed. In reality the pilot was a Rebel agent and she made the stop in order to let fellow agent Kyle Katarn to the station, and sneak into the Sulon Star. Her voice was nice enough to mellow Zyak and advise her that missile batteries would easily make a mistake after the recent trouble in Barons Hed. Zyak said that he could have her permits revoked or ground her for violating Imperial airspace; but offered to reduce her penalty after a "personal conference". The pilot showed to be in haste, and Zyak gave her thirty seconds to disappear or his gunner would blow the ship up. Later that same day, he completed his shift and was replaced by Nomo; then he saw exchange of fire all around the station below his tower, and fragmentary comm traffic that came by talked about a firefight with an intruder. As Nomo was now responsible to handle the situation, he did nothing more than telling a stressful Nomo what to do, while watching the events with electrobinoculars. He suggested telling the Stormtrooper CO to be careful with their shots among the fuel tanks, and when he showed no compliance, he suggested to minimize circulation by closing the valves and bleeding the pumps. In all that chaos, a technician informed Zyak of an incoming ship; Zyak suggested to break off, but after a rude response, he scanned and saw again the Moldy Crow. Just then he realized that the nice-voiced pilot was actually an agent who dropped the infiltrator off in the station, and as such was responsible for the battle that was being fought; Zyak ordered the Crow to be shot down. He had a thin mustache, and a sneer when on duty. He was disgusted with civilian pilots who often lost their ways or confused orders. However whenever he heard a nice female voice he would try to be a bit more polite. He lamented that because of his post, which comprised mostly of voice communication, he often would never got to see whom those nice voices belonged to. Even thought he thought Nomo was less than capable, he thought he was not obliged to show him some things after the end of his own duty; although later he decided to stay when the trouble began in Fuel City. Following the near-destruction of Fuel City, Zyak decided to go AWOL rather than face his superiors' wrath, even though Lieutenant Nomo had been on duty. In the audio adaptation of Dark Forces: Rebel Agent, he was voiced by Tim Russell. *Dark Forces: Rebel Agent *Dark Forces: Rebel Agent audio drama Category:Imperial Navy captains of the Galactic Empire Category:Males