39120
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Government_House_(Sulon)
Government House (Sulon)
5989

The Government House, also known as the Dark PalaceStar Wars: Jedi Knight: Dark Forces II: The Official Strategy Guide, was a building built on the summit of the Barons Knoll hill in the city of Barons Hed on Sulon. thumb|left|[[8t88/Legends|8t88 with his pet in Government House.]] After the Subjugation of Sulon (1 BBY) by JerecDark Forces: Soldier for the Empire the Dark Jedi became a governor of the moon for a short time, during which he built the Palace. After Jerec departed, it was left in the hands of his majordomo who continued to serve the executives who succeeded Jerec.Dark Forces: Rebel Agent In 5 ABY, Jerec was after the Valley of the Jedi and some of his Seven Dark Jedi returned to Sulon in order to steal the map to Ruusan from the Katarn homestead; the tiles of the map were then transported to the Palace. Meanwhile the information broker droid 8t88 working for Jerec, had failed to make Kyle Katarn cooperate, losing an arm in the process; he retreated to Sulon, was hosted in the palace as a dignitary on a personal mission for Lord Jerec with his pet hornagaunt Grendel. During his stay there the 8t88 was served by humans Rol and Trox, and the Gamorrean Hontho. The majordomo, irritated by the droid's bossy attitude and contempt for biologicals, assigned to him the coat room as a "guest suite"; an esoteric jest he hoped would impress the staff. Indeed, after a spare arm from another model 88-series administration droid was transported there, 8t88 arranged several tools on the room's table and installed the arm on himself. Then he decided to test his new arm, he summoned the "fool in charge" and inquired about his guest room's "pedigree". The majordomo initially attempted to persist that it was a VIP suite practical for the droid's job but the droid made clear he knew the room's role. After making an example of him, his screams scaring off the birds from the nearby eaves. thumb|Kyle Katarn confronts 8t88 over the assembled pieces of the Map. 8t88 later moved into a more luxurious study with a wooden floor, an ornately carved table and a thronelike chair, where he continued his work on the Map. Having transmitted his 3d reconstruction to Jerec onboard the Vengeance, his minion Yun was sent back to Sulon with a detachment of Stormtroopers tasked to destroy the original map. Meanwhile Katarn was looking for the Map and sneaked into the tower, killing Rol, Trox and Hontho. He found 8t88, but was too late as Yun emerged from an elevator on the ceiling, jumped on the table and destroyed the tiles of the Map with his lightsaber. He then attacked Katarn, giving 8t88 some time to leave. It was Katarn's first victory against a Dark Jedi, but spared the Dark Jedi's life. The youth escaped by floating towards the ceiling, and just then Kyle realised that 8t88 had also fled. A shuttle was leaving the Tower just when Jan Ors was circling the roof with the Moldy Crow. Just then Stormtroopers stormed into the room, but seeing "a Jedi" deflecting their shots with his lightsaber they attempted to retreat; a noncom kneecapped one of them to persuade them to fall back. Kyle made his way to a stairwell and to the roof platform where he was picked by the Crow, and then followed 88's shuttle to the south towards the Fuel City. Constructed from stone and reached a tall height, which combined with its location on top of the city's central hill gave it a commanding view of the city and inspired awe to the populace. Weapons emplacements protected the building. The residences around it, built at or near the hill, belonged to the wealthiest citizens. The building contained luxurius guest rooms, also a ballroom, adjacent to which was a humble coat room, a dreary location without windows.Dark Forces: Rebel Agent audio drama *Dark Forces: Rebel Agent *Dark Forces: Rebel Agent audio drama *Star Wars: Jedi Knight: Dark Forces II *Star Wars: Jedi Knight: Dark Forces II: The Official Strategy Guide Category:Barons Hed locations Category:Galactic Empire locations Category:Government facilities