39124
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Katarn_estate
Katarn estate
5924

The Katarn estate was the farmland on Sulon owned by the Katarn family. It lay about fourty kilometers to the west of Baron's Hed.Dark Forces: Rebel Agent It was bordering the Danga estate. To the east was the meeting place of the local Rebels and twenty kilometers to the north was a stone quarry from which Morgan made parts for his homestead. Nearby was an once-prosperous factory. To the north west was a vehicle park.Dark Forces: Rebel Agent audio drama Around the estate were various bushes, plants and animals, such as poro poppies and nanthas; eye-eye snakes and hole balls nested and wandered around the undergrowth. It contained the Katarn family compound, a solar panel, at least four pump stations, a large irrigation system, a tap tree, and variform bean crops.Dark Forces: Soldier for the Empire Like his neighbors, Morgan Katarn made an underground irrigation network under his farm, comprising of droid-dug tunnels and pipes and tubes that distributed moisture from the tap trees wherever it was needed. Droids dug and maintained them as some of them were too small for an adult human; access hatches led into the tunnels at several points, such as near the kitchen backdoor, or the vehicle park. One of the shafts was labeled "main central". Young Kyle Katarn used to explore and play in the little-known trails around the estate. Since he grew up, the undergrowth had grew into itself and the old routes had become a little more than game trails. Like other farmers, Morgan made use of droids around his farm. A BT-16 perimeter security droid however caused the deathof his wife. It was burned to the ground by Imperial commandos under Jerec in a raid for the subjugation of Sulon in 1 BBY. Agro droids that labored around the farm were shot. In 5 BBY Jerec returned to Sulon in his search for the Valley of the Jedi, knowing that Morgan Katarn made map to it. Jerec moved his entire force over Sulon, and his forces ransacked the homestead. Three of his seven Dark Jedi - Sariss, her Epicanthix apprentice Yun, and the Twi'lek Boc Aseca discovered the map. With them was a vehicle containing a half-dozen transports, gravsleds and a mobile command post. After they removed and took the map to Baron's Hed, the farm was left under the heavy guard of Gamorreans and Grave Tuskens, mercenary Tusken Raiders from the planet Tatooine that acted as the personal soldiers of the Dark Jedi Maw. Imperial stormtroopers, Commandos and All Terrain Scout Transport also patrolled the farm grounds. Sentries were placed around the structure to inhibit any intruders, and alert a response force to arrive. Kyle Katarn sneaked into the farm and the homestead, and reactivated the family droid WeeGee from whom he learned about the Map and its significance, and decided to reach Baron's Hed to retrieve the map pieces. They exited from the kitchen backdoor, and after killing Brollo and a Stormtrooper, they opened a nearby hatch leading to the tunnels. Past the main central shaft, and on their way to the the north-west, they were attacked by war droid 8-13, which WeeGee wrestled and decapitated with his heavy duty arm. A while later, they reached a hatch right at the nearby vehicle park. Apparently it was the discovery of the dead guards that made the troopers, commandos and mercenaries stationed in the park to run towards the homestead, allowing Katarn and WeeGee to exit and steal a T-4. Havoc followed in Barons Hed and the nearby Fuel City, calling almost all of the forces to leave the farm and muster to other places. After some pursuit in the Moldy Crow, Kyle correctly guessed that the farm would now be empty, as the place they expected him less likely to return. The Crow landed inside the factory ruins where the pair rested before resuming their quest for the Valley of the Jedi. *Dark Forces: Soldier for the Empire *Dark Forces: Soldier for the Empire audio drama *Dark Forces: Rebel Agent *Dark Forces: Rebel Agent audio drama *Star Wars: Jedi Knight: Dark Forces II *Star Wars: Jedi Knight: Dark Forces II: The Official Strategy Guide Category:Sulon locations