39133
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Sulon_Star
Sulon Star
8332

The Sulon Star was a large freighter that was owned by the Dark Jedi Jerec.Dark Forces: Rebel Agent In addition to its spacious cargo holds, the vessel had a small docking bay to accommodate more space for cargo on its belly; it was big enough to accommodate four vessels; typically two lifeboats and one Imperial shuttle. As in most vessels of that type, an emergency-access hatch was located at the top of its dorsal hull, and a vertical emergency drop shaft through its hull. Two corridors ran along its length.Dark Forces: Jedi Knight thumb|left|180px|The Sulon Star on approach to [[Ruusan/Legends|Ruusan.]] The Dark Jedi Jerec had come into possession of the Sulon Star sometime before 5 ABY.Star Wars: Jedi Knight: Dark Forces II The ship would be stationed on the planet Sulon outside of the city of Barons Hed at the fuel complex Fuel City when it was chosen for the meeting place between the droid 8t88 and the Dark Jedi to collect his payment for his services to Jerec. 8t88 boarded the Sulon Star on a Lambda-class T-4a shuttle belonging to the Vengeance with his pet Grendel, where he met his betrayal: as Jerec saw no purpose in actually rewarding the droid, the Dark Jedi Pic and Gorc were sent there to eliminate the droid, which they did. The Rebel agent and Jedi Apprentice Kyle Katarn was tailing the droid's shuttle and sneaked aboard before the freighter had departed from the fuelling station. Entering through the upper cargo door, Katarn had to make his way to a compartment. Pic and Gorc were waiting for him and duelled with Katarn, but were defeated by the Rebel agent, who managed to salvage the droid's head. He escaped from the ship shortly afterwards, while Imperial Stormtroopers and Commandos tried to secure the ship. Katarn made it to the hatch; once outside the inner hatch, he shot it for a couple of minutes until he welded it, and used the hollow as a defense, against the forces that gathered on the catwalks around station six. That was until Jan Ors came with the Moldy Crow and collected him. The shootout caused explosions and serious damage to the fuelling complex. Yet the Sulon Star remained safe and would continue its journey to join up with Jerec's fleet of star destroyers, and his main flagship Vengeance. Some time after, the ship was docked on the Valley Tower while Kyle Katarn sneaked there to find Jerec. It was under the shadow of the Sulon Star where he fought with Maw and slaughtered him, before Jerec emerged with the remaining Dark Jedi, urging him to give in to the dark side and strike down his partner, Jan Ors. He refused and, whether by accident or design, Jerec knocked Kyle Katarn into the ship's hold. The vessel itself, which had received the full blast of Jerec's Force power, began to lose its hold on the docking station where it was moored. The supports gave way, and the ship, whose systems had been knocked offline, began to plummet into a deep canyon. Frantically searching the falling ship, eventually Kyle found his own vessel, the Moldy Crow, which had been tethered to the craft's underside. Katarn managed to board his ship and escape the Sulon Star just before it smashed into the canyon floor. However, the shockwave from the explosion caused the Crow to crash as well. The ship in the game is unnamed, and appears in the full motion video cutscenes, as well as a playable setting in several levels: "9: Fuel Station Launch", "10: 8t88's Reward", "11: Gorc and Pic - The Brothers of the Force", "12: Escape With the Map"; in the cutscenes it is seen leaving the Fuel City and reaching Ruusan with Jerec's fleet. It later appears in the action around the Valley Tower: in the background of "14: Maw: The Revenge", and then its interior in "15: The Falling Ship". In that level, the setting is tilted as the ship is falling, and there are several routes to reach the hatch; the player can also find consoles that trigger engines that slows down the ship's descent but does not stop its inevitable crash. The crashed ship appears in level "16: Sariss - Jedi Battleground", and its wreckage can be entered. In the novella Dark Forces: Rebel Agent that narrates the first half of the game, the ship's name is given as Sulon Star, and it appears in the actions corresponding to the levels #9-#12 of the game. The ship is not mentioned again and it is suggested to have been destroyed in the explosions during the skirmish around the Fuel City (not appearing in the game). In the sequel novella Dark Forces: Jedi Knight that narrates the second half of the story, a ship similar to that of the game appears in the illustrations by Dave Dorman, and the events corresponding to the levels #14-#16 are mentioned; however the ship of the narration is not given a name nor is connected to the Sulon Star of the previous part, suggesting that it can be a different ship altogether. The Dark Forces: Jedi Knight audio drama differs from both previous sources; Katarn sees the Moldy Crow captured in a dock of the Valley Tower; the confrontation with Jerec is different, and Katarn runs directly to the Crow to flee Jerec. The Dark Forces Saga, Part 5 suggests that some years after the Mission to Sulon, Luke Skywalker was interested in locating Yoda's former shoto possessed by Pic, whom Katarn had killed on Sulon Star. This seems to indicate that the Star was not the same ship destroyed on Ruusan. This article follows the events of the game and the novellas, assuming that the ship of the game is the same as Sulon Star, and is the same ship that appears both on Sulon and later on Ruusan. *Dark Forces: Rebel Agent *Dark Forces: Rebel Agent audio drama *Star Wars: Jedi Knight: Dark Forces II *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Freighters Category:Starships of the Galactic Empire