39111
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Fuel_City
Fuel City
7241

Fuel City was a fuel-tank complex that provided fuel to the spaceport near Barons Hed on Sulon, ten kilometers south of the spaceport. Fuel City must have been built after 5 BBYThe New Essential Guide to Characters as Kyle Katarn didn't know its existence when he returned to his homeworld after ten years.Star Wars: Jedi Knight: Dark Forces II opening crawl The complex was guarded by Imperial stormtroopers as well as hired Trandoshan mercenaries. The vast workings of the complex was kept maintained by Ugnaught workers. In that year, Gorc and Pic, minions of the Dark Jedi Jerec, were stationed in Sulon Star, a cargo ship belonging to him; the ship was docked on station six, while a fully automated ship, and another much smaller ship occupied two other stations. After 8t88 completed his mission to Jerec, the Dark Jedi redirected him there to receive his "reward". Rebel Alliance agent Kyle Katarn was after him, and seeing his shuttle leaving from Barons Hed, the Moldy Crow followed it. WeeGee guessed that it was heading to the station, being the quickiest way to leave the planet. Katarn came to the fuel station while attempting to sneak aboard the Sulon Star. Katarn landed on the roof and made his way into the station, past Imperial stormtroopers as well as hired Trandoshan mercenaries. The rebel made his way past the primary fuel station and shut down the fuel pipes in order to use them as a route to get to the refueling gantry where the Sulon Star was docked. Inside the ship, he discovered that the droid had been deactivated, and had to deal with the Brothers of the Sith; he defeated them and recovered the droid's head, but during that someone called for help. The ship, as well as the station's catwalks around it, were filled with Stormtroopers. Zyak and Nomo ordered to bleed the pipes and close the valves, but while the bleeding process was still only at seventy percent, and there was some relay problem with the valves, the Crow returned in order to extract Katarn. Zyak launched weapons from the missile batteries, but the Crow destroyed a storage tank in order to distract the heat-seeking missiles in the explosion. More explosions followed as three nearby tanks blew up. thumb|left|The Moldy Crow flees the exploding Fuel City. The Crow managed to extract Kyle from the top of the Sulon Star in the midst of exploging fuel canisters around the station.Star Wars: Jedi Knight: Dark Forces II TIEs came after the ship, but the first one was shot down near a storage unit and crashed into a tank; one of its shrapnels punctured a line causing a leak, which then was set afire by flaming debris; the fiery liquid surrounded the maintainance facility. Fuel City was a massive fueling complex, consisting of nine fuel stations each with a refueling gantry. From distance, hundred of lights were seen randomly dotting the complex, and formings shadowy shapes. The stations had networks of interlocked tractor beams that held the largest ships hovering in place while being served. Rows of storage tanks served all them, connected with a maze of huge fuel pipes to supply the large amounts needed for starships; some were so large that could be traversed by a humanoid if emptied. There were at least forty-six valves. The primary fuel station was built as a large cylindrical building with a large fuel tank in the center. The fuel pipes connected to a refuelling gantry which where each guarded by several Imperial Stormtroopers.Star Wars: Jedi Knight: Dark Forces II: The Official Strategy Guide Operations was responsible for the pumps, while switching was responsible for the valves. Safety regulations required that ships being served, had to maintain their locks, hatches and ports open, so that in case of a fire, autohoses could enter while the crew was escaping. Stops prevented the larger defensive weapons from firing on the fueling stations. In Star Wars: Jedi Knight: Dark Forces II, level 9: "Fuel Station Launch" is played inside the fuel station. The player heads through it to reach the Sulon Star. In the novel Dark Forces: Rebel Agent, Kyle Katarn doesn't venture through the fuel station to get to the Sulon Star, but boards the ship via his own small ship, the Moldy Crow. The fuel station was unnamed in the game, and received the name "Fuel City" in the novella as well as the refueling gantry which received the name "Station six".Dark Forces: Rebel Agent In the game, some pipes near the end of the level, have three faces of Max as an easter egg. *Dark Forces: Rebel Agent *Dark Forces: Rebel Agent audio drama *Star Wars: Jedi Knight: Dark Forces II *Star Wars: Jedi Knight: Dark Forces II: The Official Strategy Guide Category:Cities Category:Fueling locations Category:Galactic Empire locations Category:Sulon locations