39222
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Carole_Grawley
Carole Grawley
6007

Carole Grawley was a Human female farmer from the moon Sulon who was the wife of Grif and the mother of Katie Grawley. Carole was a Sulonese woman who knew Katarn family. She married Grif Grawley and they had a daughter, Katie. In 1 BBY, Grawley and Carole were outside their house and bore witness to the Sulon massacre by the Galactic Empire firsthand. They first saw an Imperial probe droid passing near their home, and then a series of blaster shots tore through and set their house on fire. In an attempt to rescue Katie, who cried desperately for help, Carole bolted toward the home; Grawley barely pulled her back before the structure collapsed, which killed their daughter. But not before Carole been severely burned which left prominent scars on her face.Dark Forces: Jedi Knight Afterward with the help of Morgan Katarn the couple emigrated to Ruusan. One time around 5 ABY, on the eve of Katie's birthday, her husband "celebrated" by burying his grief with alcohol in Smuggler's Rest until he fell unconscious. She was summoned to Fort Nowhere, and with the help of some locals, they loaded him on their skimmer to return home. Six months later, Grif was near Hill 461 herding their gra and called her for good night, when Carol notified him that all weather satellites were off-line. He failed returning the next day and worried, she called Horley to Fort Nowhere to ask his whereabouts.Dark Forces: Jedi Knight audio drama Eventually Grif returned home and his fears proved right, as an assault shuttle bearing Imperial representatives landed in the settlement. Carole heard that they only talked with Mayor Byron Devo III and then saw the shuttle leaving without any trouble, and tried to quiet Grif's worries; she hoped that after the death of the Emperor Palpatine the Imperial Remnant changed. But she didn't change Grif's mind, who insisted to leave their home. Indeed, soon after Grif was proven right and despite their initial moves, the Imperials devastated Fort Nowhere. Grif managed to gather some survivors and they all hid in an ancient temple. Not long after, an unknown ship, following the direction transmitted by Grif, reached a pinpointed location, and Fido inspected it and the pilots, and led them to the temple; monitoring Fido's footage, she wondered if they were Rebels, and Grif wondered to her if one of the pilots was Kyle Katarn, Morgan's son. Once the ship arrived, it turned out that it was indeed Kyle. Meeting Grif, he asked about his wife, to which Carole claimed she was okay, and thanked his father for this, explaining that it was he who brought them on that planet. She was shocked later when she learned that Morgan had died, and it was the reason for Kyle to defect from the Empire. Inside the temple, Carole heard her husband narrating again the recent developments, events that she would never forget. She lamented that all these were caused because the townspeople did not pay attention to Grif's warnings. She later heard Katarn's story about his defection from the Empire, the Dark Jedi Jerec who is after the Valley of the Jedi on the planet, and his minions who attacked them. Carole found his narration incredible in her enthusiasm, although Luther Pardy, thought they were "fairy tales", and accused Katarn for being a spy. A few days later her husband accompanied the agents on their quest to the Valley of the Jedi, but never returned, as he lost his life while battling an attack droid, somewhere outside Jerec's base. Carole considered her husband Grif tactless. After his drinking incident she did not approve drinking much Old Trusty. Being closely attached to him, she disliked when he had to herd the gras in long range, and was particularly worried whenever he drove their old skimmer. She didn't like the idea of cave farming. The moments after the destruction of the Fort, and how her outcast husband agreed to help and became the leader of the survivors was a real miracle to her. In the audio adaptation of Dark Forces: Jedi Knight, she was voiced by Sue Scott. *Dark Forces: Jedi Knight *Dark Forces: Jedi Knight audio drama Category:Farmers Category:Females Category:Humans Category:Ruusanians Category:Sulonese