39243
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Tola_(Galactic_Civil_War)
Tola (Galactic Civil War)
3673

Captain Tola was a stoic male Mon Calamari who served as a commanding officer of the New Hope during the Galactic Civil War. While in orbit over Milagro, the ship was under attack by an Imperial Star Destroyer. While they were waiting for reinforcements, Tola could do more than allocating the resources for repairs as the New Hope suffered damage.Dark Forces: Jedi Knight He ordered to get the backup antenna online. Mon Mothma arrived to the bridge having interrupted a shower. and Tola informed her of the developments: the ship was holding course over Milagro, shields were down but the hull was holding; the aggressor was somewhere in far side of the star system out of scanner range and were trying to manage against smaller starfighters.Dark Forces: Jedi Knight audio drama When Luke Skywalker and the Moldy Crow arrived to the system, locating the Star Destroyer and confirming it was damaged, Mon Mothma "ordered" Tola to inform Han Solo and prepare to counterattack the Destroyer. Despite Mon Mothma being a civilian, Tola nonetheless complied. They were twenty thousand clicks away from the Star Destroyer. Tola continued to coordinate the repairs. When gate twelve was depressurized, he ordered to divert more power to thruster nomber six. He tried to ensure Mothma and Leia that there were possibilities to win the battle if the Destroyer was damaged as expected. The Imparial Captain Purdy M. Trico prepared to engage them; knowing that both ships had no shields, he ordered his gunners to fire at will. No long after, Solo reported that the Star Destroyer's escort had changed formation and her shields were down. Mothma did not repeat her previous mistake and she, like all the crew, waited for Tola's decision, who conceded with Solo, and took the oportunity to engage the Imperial ship. In the Dark Forces: Jedi Knight Tola is mentioned to be a Calamari Captain. In the audio adaptation Tola was voiced by Stephen Yoakam and has a regular human voice. *Dark Forces: Jedi Knight *Dark Forces: Jedi Knight audio drama Category:Males Category:Mon Calamari Category:New Republic Defense Fleet officers