39250
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Battle_of_the_Sagma_system
Battle of the Sagma system
6420

At some point between 2 BBY and 4 ABY, a battle of the Galactic Civil War took place in the Sagma system of the Outer Rim Territories' Illisurevimurasi sector. The engagement pitted the Galactic Empire against the Rebel Alliance, with the former emerging victorious. The origins of the battle lie with a mention of the "Battle of Sagma"&mdash;the aftermath of which saw the Galactic Empire make Captain Ganig and Sergeant Stecker famous heroes&mdash;in "Picutorion Viewed From the Top," a short companion narrative included in the 1989 Imperial Sourcebook that was written by Greg Gorden and published by West End Games for use with Star Wars: The Roleplaying Game. The Essential Atlas, a 2009 reference book by Daniel Wallace and Jason Fry, subsequently noted a battle in the Sagma system on a map of Galactic Civil War engagements taking place between 2 BBY and 4 ABY. thumb|right|250px|The origins of the Sagma system battle lie with the Imperial Sourcebook. On that map, the Sagma system battle was placed spatially close to Galactic Civil War battles in the Praadost, Doniphon, and Telos systems. Fry's Wizards of the Coast Star Wars Miniatures scenario series The Hunt Within: Valance's Tale, published on Wizards.com between December 2, 2004 and January 27, 2005, had previously established that the Imperial campaign known as the Kwymar Suppressions&mdash;preceded by the pacification of Praadost II&mdash;included engagements on the celestial bodies Doniphon and Telos as well as the battle on Picutorion which, per "Picutorion Viewed From the Top," took place after the Battle of Sagma. In addition, The Hunt Within: Valance's Tale established that the Imperial stormtrooper officer Beilert Valance had participated in the Picutorion battle before being wounded and fitted with cybernetic prosthetic parts. However, the 2012 reference book The Essential Guide to Warfare, authored by Fry and Paul R. Urquhart, introduced a "Battle of Sagma" in which the Empire was victorious and that was set in 18 BBY.The Essential Guide to Warfare Furthermore, a section was created for the book in which Valance's fitting with cybernetics was dated to 17 BBY. Although the section was cut from The Essential Guide to Warfare, it was later released in 2014 as part of Star Wars: The Essential Guide to Warfare Author's Cut, a series of articles published on the StarWars.com Blog by Fry and Del Rey editor Erich Schoeneweiss containing various cut content from the book. Thereby, the Picutorion battle was also dated to approximately 17 BBY, and the Galactic Civil War battle in the Sagma system from The Essential Atlas was retroactively established to have been a separate engagement from the Battle of Sagma from "Picutorion Viewed From the Top." *The Essential Atlas Category:Battles in the Sagma system Category:Battles of the Galactic Civil War