39636
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Sekot_accords
Sekot accords
6397

The Sekot accords were the peace accords between the Galactic Alliance and the Yuuzhan Vong empire after the Battle of Yuuzhan'tar. After the death of the Vong Supreme Overlord Shimrra Jamaane at the hands of Luke Skywalker, the Yuuzhan Vong were thrown into despair. Though Supreme Overlords were commonly killed (as this was usually how a new leader ascended to the polyp throne), there was usually a pool of candidates from which a successor would come. However, Shimrra had ensured that there were no possible successors. Without an officially confirmed Overlord, the Yuuzhan Vong were essentially incapable of appealing to the gods. Thus, they were defeated, and Warmaster Nas Choka, the highest ranking survivor of the Elite, ordered the Yuuzhan Vong empire cease all combat, and either join him in surrender, or join Shimrra in a honorable death. Without any protocols for surrender, the Yuuzhan Vong expected the Galactic Alliance to act how they would in such a situation: to execute all of them. There were many in the Galactic Alliance who were willing to do just that. The Bothans, who had declared ar'krai against the Yuuzhan Vong, demanded that every Yuuzhan Vong be wiped out. Some groups suggested that they simply kill off the entire Warrior caste. Less militant factions suggested that they imprison the Yuuzhan Vong aboard their vessels, or simply send them back to the Void between the galaxy and the their original galaxy. A solution soon presented itself in the form of Zonama Sekot. Sekot, the living intelligence of the planet, revealed that it was the seed of Yuuzhan'tar, the Yuuzhan Vong homeworld destroyed during the Cremlevian War. Sekot asked that the Yuuzhan Vong be allowed to settle the planet, so that they could redefine their beliefs in peace. Chief of State Cal Omas, at the urging of Master Skywalker, agreed to convince the Galactic Alliance Senate to spare the Yuuzhan Vong, but under strong conditions. According to the terms of the surrender as part of the dismantling of the Yuuzhan Yong empire, they were to be completely demilitarized, and stripped of all their spacecraft, so that they could never again leave Zonama Sekot's atmosphere, while the Yuuzhan Vong fleet was sent into Coruscant Prime, Coruscant's star. The shapers were to help the Alliance in placating the World Brain of Yuuzhan'tar so that the Alliance could start the reconstruction of Coruscant. The Ruling castes were to cease their persecution of the Shamed Ones, now renamed the Extolled, and abolish their caste systems. They were also required to cease their blood rituals and sacrificing sentient beings to their gods. Finally, Nas Choka was to recall all Yuuzhan Vong to the Coruscant system, where they would join the rest of the Yuuzhan Vong on Zonama Sekot and any who refused to heed the call would be executed by the Galactic Alliance or the Yuuzhan Vong who answered to Nas Choka. Though initially horrified at the concept of being placed in the care of Sekot&mdash;a planet they had spent the entire Battle of Coruscant trying to destroy&mdash;Nas Choka relented, as the Yuuzhan Vong were the defeated and had lost all their rights, at least in his mind. Choka fully implemented every term vigorously. Once the Yuuzhan Vong were all on the planet, Zonama Sekot went back to the Unknown Regions, so that the Yuuzhan Vong would be spared another retaliation. While the peace prevented a xenocide, there were many that were unhappy with the results. The Bothans openly refused to respect the accords, and the political fallout forced Admiral Traest Kre'fey, who had led the Galactic Alliance fleet during the battle and been crowned the "Liberator of Coruscant", to resign as Supreme Commander of the Galactic Alliance Defense Force. As of 35 ABY, Reh'mwa, a Bothan fundamentalist, was still trying to continue the ar'krai and locate Zonama Sekot in the Unknown Regions. However, their efforts were unsuccessful. Yuuzhan Vong renegades, marked for death by the Galactic Alliance for their noncompliance, still held out until at least 41 ABY.Crosscurrent *The New Jedi Order: The Unifying Force *Dark Nest I: The Joiner King *Legacy (2006) 1 Category:Galactic Alliance laws and acts Category:Treaties Category:Yuuzhan Vong culture Category:Yuuzhan Vong War laws and acts