39680
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/En%27Tra%27Sol
En'Tra'Sol
4221

Many thousands of years ago, the Coynites were divided into numerous warring clans. This, combined with their rapid technological development, resulted in a species that not only fought well, but excelled in weapon design and manufacture. Eventually, one Coynite clan learned how to manufacture biological weapons. Whether the action was accidental or intentional is not known, but a dangerous toxin was eventually released. The microbe spread across Coyn, uncontrolled. Anything as simple as a touching of hands could spread the deadly organism. The plague killed over half of the planet's population. Toral, chief of the strongest clan, realized that the Coynite species was heading toward extinction. He began a series of reforms with his allies and eventually succeeded in not only banishing biological weapons, but also instituted a code of law for the warrior society. Toral's leadership and wisdom united the warring clans under one law and one leader. During this time the Coynite established the tradition of no personal contact without express permission first. The effect on the biological toxin was so pronounced that the ban on contact became part of this law. The law became known as the En'Tra'Sol, the "King-Law." Under the En'Tra'Sol, clan infighting was not eliminated, but the scale of the conflicts were greatly reduced. Toral's son, Arl'Toral, managed to bring peace to the planet. Arl'Toral channeled his people's natural aggressiveness into a ridged code of conduct by revising the En'Tra'Sol. Shortly thereafter, settlers from Elrood first discovered Coyn. During the early exchanges with these strangers from space, Arl'Toral realized that the best way to ensure peace on Coyn was to turn the Coynite aggressive energies into other pursuits. Thus the first Coynite mercenary units were formed. *A Coynite's Sratt is their life. All speech, action and story are Sratt. Once given, it is eternally binding. One who breaks Sratt may be branded af'harl. *Combat is the natural order of life. Conflicts and disagreements must be settled openly in combat. *An unsheathed or drawn weapon must be used. If a weapon is drawn in anger, it must be used. To not respond to a challenge, or to challenge or threaten idly, is to be branded af'harl. *It is forbidden to show mercy in combat. It eliminates the honor of victory in combat and removes the honor of those who are shown mercy, making them af'harl. Combat is to the death unless one swears tracc'sorr to the other, in which case they become part of that Coynite's family. At the beginning and end of each combat, all survivors must acknowledge and salute the opponent's honor. *af'tah or harl'tah are unforgivable sins. Use of kzah is deception and cowardice. Challenging the injured or weak to combat is cowardice and is unforgivable. Those who deceive or show cowardice are branded af'harl. *One must unquestioningly obey all to whom they have sworn tracc'sorr. All superior clan members, Ag'Tra and En'Tra are to be obeyed without reluctance or hesitation. Not to do this is to be branded af'harl. *One may only break tracc'sorr by publicly declaring fas'tracc'sorr. Superior clan members, nobles and of course, the En'Tra, may challenge anyone doing this to combat. *Pain, sadness, guilt, regret, reluctance or fear are emotions of af'harl and may not be expressed without losing honor. *It is forbidden to touch another without first receiving permission. The penalty for this is death. *af'harl are no longer Coynites. af'harl have no rights, no property, no meaning. They are to be murdered, enslaved or dealt with as any Coynites see fit. A Coynite may take responsibility for af'harl, but all actions of that af'harl are that Coynite's responsibility. *Planets of the Galaxy, Volume Three *The Star Wars Planets Collection *Alien Encounters *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Coynite culture Category:Laws