39766
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/PD-series_protocol_droid
PD-series protocol droid
7190

|mass= |gender= |sensor= |plating=*Red *Yellow *Orange |armament= |equipment=AA-1 VerboBrain |affiliation= |firstmade= |retired= }} The PD-series protocol droid, sometimes known as the PD Lurrian droid, was a protocol droid produced by Cybot Galactica specifically for the Lurrians of the planet Lur. The line was designed to appeal to the Lurrians aesthetically and to be able to traverse the harsh conditions of the homeworld. Additionally, PD-series droids were programmed with extensive knowledge of genetics and DNA resequencing, making them particularly useful to the Lurrians, who were expert geneticists. When the Galactic Empire quarantined Lur, Cybot Galactica lost their market. The production run was sold off to a wholesaler at a significant loss and the line become an expensive and embarrassing failure for the manufacturer. The PD-series was designed by Cybot Galactica specifically for the Lurrian market. The intention was to reap huge profits from designing a droid that could operate in Lur's harsh climate; the planet's environment was tough on droid systems so automatons had never caught on as a consumer product. Cybot Galactica designed a revised version of their successful 3PO-series to meet the needs of the Lurrian market. A stock protocol droid body was used as the base as the Lurrians were humanoids. As the droid had to operate in Lur's cold weather, the exposed wiring common to the 3PO-series was enclosed in plasteel plating, and all of the joints and seams were covered with weather-resistant industrial sealant and impact-cushioning systems. PD-series droids were brightly colored, coming in red, yellow, and orange. The colors allowed the droids to be visible against the backdrop of Lur's snowy climes. left|thumb|PD-series schematics The head was designed to look similarto a Lurrian, and incorporated features that would appeal more to the species, including wide, oversized photoreceptors. A brow ridge jutted out over the droid's photoreceptors to stop them from being obscured by snow. PD droids were equipped with an AA-1 VerboBrain, but one that had been modified to be of more use to the Lurrians who were expert geneticists. Sixty percent of the unit's language programming was removed and replaced with an extensive library containing information on genetics and DNA resequencing. Cybot Galactica also incorporated an innovative system into the PD-series that would allow them to traverse the vertical environment of Lur. The planet's gale-force winds made repulsorlift travel extremely dangerous, so Lurrians used a primitive hook and line system to scale their warrenlike cities. The PD-series were equipped with heavy servogrips that were detachable and could be fired by rocket jets in the wrist joint. The servogrips had a thin, strong cable attached to them that spooled out from a reel in the droid's forearm, and was capable of reaching up to twenty meters. When the reel retracted, the cable was strong enough to pull the droid up, allowing it to move as the Lurrians did. The PD-series was marketed to the Lurrians, and thousands of units were produced once the Lurrians expressed a strong interest in the design. However, Cybot Galactica was blindsided when New Order decided that the Lurrians and their capabilities posed a sufficient threat to their future plans. Emperor Palpatine ordered Lur to be quarantined in order to control the planet's genetic specialists. With the Lurrian market now closed to them, Cybot Galactica sold the entire production run to a major wholesaler at a significant loss. The wholesaler did not advertise or market the series well, and many of the droids that were sold ended up not working to their full capabilities. The PD-series were still fully capable protocol droids, and were particularly useful to individuals with an interest in genetics or biology. Their robust design meant that PD droids rarely broke down, with many of the initial production run still operating long after their construction. Droids sold to owners that were not Lurrian or geneticists often had their modified brain replaced. The failure of the PD series was a costly and embarrassing disaster for Cybot Galactica despite it not being the company's fault. PDA6 was a PD-series droid owned by Zorneth, an Ithorian who co-developed the savorium herb. The droid served Zorneth as his personal assistant aboard his herdship. *Boba Fett: Hunted *Droids (1995) 5 *Droids (1995) 7 *Droids (1995) 8 *Scoundrels *The Essential Guide to Droids *Arms & Equipment Guide *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Cybot Galactica products Category:Protocol droid models