39873
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Geonosian_Bio-Lab
Geonosian Bio-Lab
5567

|interest= |rebuilt= |builder= |height= |width= |affiliation=Geonosians }} }} The Geonosian Bio-Lab, also known as the Geonosian biogenics research laboratory, was a laboratory hidden on Yavin 4 used by the Geonosians. The lab was used to test experiments on many creatures, causing them to mutate to hideous beasts, for use in the Geonosian Execution Arena on Geonosis. During the Galactic Civil War, Bothan spies intercepted transmissions from an Imperial officer named Harmon Vintollo on Kaadara and an undercover Rebel operative named Teraeza Furloti in a hotel in Tyrena on Corellia. They both spoke of a hidden biogenics lab run by the Geonosians. The information was later leaked to the HoloNet. Information was also revealed when Geonosian named Ikvizi who was being held prisoner on Kashyyyk gave the coordinates to get a domesticated bolotaur within the lab to a helpful traveler. Following the Battle of Yavin, rumors began circulating around the galaxy about the hidden laboratory. Other, more sinister creations such as mutated Kwis and Klikniks with Force powers were being developed for use. Seismic events compromised the base's integrity, disabling the holo-generators that hid the entrance to the complex. The tremors also caused minor cave-ins, structural collapses and sporadic power losses, resulting in mass chaos throughout the complex. The base's security system soon malfunctioned. The sentry droids guarding the complex were confused and proceeded to attack any unlucky adventurers who happened to stumble upon the exposed laboratory. It is not known what became of the lab after the Galactic Civil War. Rumors persist that some small groups of spacers journeyed bravely to the very bottom of the lab to kill the numerous acklays that were lurking there, in order to loot valuable materials about the creature that could potentially be used in various weaponry. The Rebel Alliance suspected the Geonosians working there to be secretly backed by the Galactic Empire. In 1 ABY, the Rebel agent Pashna Starkiller dispatched a spacer to the caves in order to retrieve an Imperial dossier with information concerning a particularly ruthless Imperial commander. The Geonosian Bio-Lab was a "dungeon" in the 2003 video game Star Wars Galaxies, a massively multiplayer online role-playing game developed by Sony Online Entertainment and published by LucasArts, prior to its closure on December 15, 2011. The Geonosian Bio-Lab was added to the game with an update released on February 24, 2004. *Star Wars Galaxies: The Total Experience: Prima Official Game Guide *Star Wars Galaxies: The Complete Guide: Prima Official Game Guide *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Geonosian culture Category:Laboratories Category:Yavin 4 locations