39870
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Oxon_City
Oxon City
8259

|population= |demonym= |affiliation=*Gungan society *Naboo }} Oxon City, also known as Oxon, was a city on the planet Naboo in which Gungans and Humans lived. The Gungans of Oxon City contributed forces to the Battle of Naboo in 32 BBY, and during the Separatist Crisis, Queen Jamillia of Naboo designated the city as one of several refugee arrival stations on the world. Oxon City, also shortened to Oxon, was a city in the swamps of the planet Naboo, inhabited by both the native Gungans and the Human Naboo. It was considered one of the principal Human settlements on the world, and was located to the southeast of the city of Theed, the Human capital, and Lake Paonga, which contained the underwater Gungan capital, Otoh Gunga. Oxon City contained a spaceport. thumb|right|350px|Gungans from Oxon City fought on the Great Grass Plains in the Battle of Naboo. During the Invasion of Naboo in 32 BBY, Oxon City contributed Gungan warriors to the Gungan Grand Army, who fought alongside their brethren from Otoh Mandassa, Umberbool City, and Otoh Gunga to repel the invading forces of the Trade Federation at the Great Grass Plains in the Battle of Naboo. After the planet's freedom was won in the battle, Gungans began the construction of a colony on the Naboo moon of Ohma-D'un. A shipment of machine parts was hijacked by pirates on its way from Oxon to the moon installation, prompting the Royal House of Naboo to assign a group of Echo Flight pilots to escort further shipments. On 13:4:18, during the Separatist Crisis, Queen Jamillia of Naboo loosened the planet's immigration restrictions and designated spaceports in Oxon, Theed, and Kwilaan Starport as refugee arrival stations. Her decision came at the cost of moving commercial mining ventures to specific service ports. Jamillia's announcement was reported in a 13:4:18 issue of the CoCo District Edition of the HoloNet News. The city of Oxon originated in the revised second draft of the prequel trilogy film Star Wars: Episode I The Phantom Menace by George Lucas, but did not appear in the finished film, which was released on May 19, 1999.Star Wars Year By Year: A Visual History, New Edition The draft was included in the CD-ROM Star Wars: Episode I Insider's Guide, released on June 23, 1999. In the draft, the B1-series battle droid OOM-9 reports to the Trade Federation's Neimoidian leadership that the Droid Army is marching on the city to no resistance. Oxon was then first mentioned canonically with respect to the Star Wars Legends continuity in Steve Miller's short story, "The Starfighter Trap," when it was published in the first issue of the Star Wars Gamer magazine in November 2000.Star Wars Gamer Special Edition The city is referenced by Rhys Dallows in a line of dialogue where he mentions encountering a TaggeCo Purchasing Agent in Oxon. Before being published in Star Wars Gamer 1, "The Starfighter Trap" had been published in three parts online, with the first part appearing on StarWars.com on October 27, 2000. In that version of the story, the line featuring the reference to Oxon instead referred to the city of Keren. It was further identified as Oxon City in the 2001 LucasArts video game Star Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds. The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia, released in 2008, stated that Oxon was a human settlement, despite its prior portrayals as a Gungan habitation and the established animosity between them until the Invasion of Naboo. *Star Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds *Star Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds: Clone Campaigns *Star Wars: Episode I Insider's Guide *Secrets of Naboo *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Cities on Naboo