39939
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Vig
Vig
5793

Major Vig was a Human male stormtrooper officer who served the Galactic Empire during the Galactic Civil War. Vig was an efficient Imperial Officer who by 5 ABY reached the rank of Major, and won respect within his ranks for his courage and competence. Inspiring respect, and quick in using a blaster, his men obeyed his orders. Vig afforded himself of grooming a nonreg moustache, which, thanks to his good reputation, was tolerated by his frustrated superiors.Dark Forces: Jedi Knight In 5 ABY he was assigned to Jerec's battle group which invaded the planet Ruusan for his quest for the Valley of the Jedi. Ancient artifacts were found in caves around the Valley of the Jedi, which Jerec thought would compensate the corporate sponsors for the expenses made by his fleets, and satisfy his critics within the Imperial Remnant. The Major oversaw the looting of the chambers and became very familiar with the necropolis complex and toured several officers who came to the area. Soon the "archaeological" operations stirred the trapped spirits of the necropolis, scaring his men and causing a chaos that stopped progress.Dark Forces: Jedi Knight audio drama One morning Vig sent a Stormtrooper to accompany Dark Jedi Yun at the cavern; the young Jedi was sent to assume command of the team. In the midst of another havoc by the "Screamers", as the troopers called the ghosts, Vig tried to return his men to order with threats, when Yun entered the chamber. They saw three spectres penetrating a trooper's body and another chaos would erupt if Yun didn't announce his presence and offer his help. Vig's troopers felt relieved within their shock, seeing one of those exalted figures surrounding the almost-mythical Jerec. Yun suggested to Vig to proceed in some executions in order to restore order, to which Vig objected, crediting it to horror which he also feels. Yun commented that his compassion was an interesting tactic and then Vig saw him concentrating and pacifying the screamers. Assured that from then on the screamers would be dealt with, Vig ordered his men to resume their work, deciding to turn a blind eye to their insubordination. The Major offered a tour around the base, and demonstrated to the newcomer the use of an ancient stasis-operated ration pack which revived living creatures ready for lunch. In other rooms he showed other treasures such as healing machines, as well as a tractor beam projector and a fusion reactor, both of minimal size. This was followed by a formal lunch in a repurposed storeroom with a Captain and two Lieutenants. At the end of the meal he saw Lt. Hab and then Yun being possessed by a screamer. A couple of days later a groundquake happened and Vig saw Jaru trapped under a slab of rock. The Major tried to handle the rescue efforts, however the workers were unable to move the rock and the construction droids were three minutes away but the boulder kept etching down and there wa no long time for the man. He was joined by Yun to whom he explained what happened, and could not believe in his eyes seeing him using telekinesis to hover the boulder four meters off the ground, and ordered the workers to pull Jaru out. He expressed his amazement to Yun. He then ordered around his men to take Jaru to medical care. Vig was a large Human male with a large, non-regulation mustache and short red hair. He was known for both his vast courage and his even greater competence. Vig did not ascribe to the Dark Side philosophy of respect stemming from fear. Confronted with insubordination, Vig would unholster his gun to his men to force them return to order and continue with their jobs. However once the havoc was over, he would not go that far as to proceed to exemplary executions, knowing that it was result of uncontrollable horror. Yun found his "compassion" an interesting yet weak tactic. In the audio adaptation of Dark Forces: Jedi Knight, he was voiced by Gary Groomes. *Dark Forces: Jedi Knight Category:Humans Category:Jerec's personnel Category:Males Category:Stormtrooper officers of the Galactic Empire