39945
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Momo
Momo
3959

Second Lieutenant Momo was an officer of the Imperial Army assigned to Jerec's battle group during the Galactic Civil War. During his career Momo wanted to establish his nickname as "Mad Dog Momo", but it never caught among his companions.Dark Forces: Jedi Knight In 5 ABY, he was part of the ground forces that invaded the planet. After the disappearance of Patrol 341 under Lieutenant Aagon, the young Dark Jedi Yun was assigned to investigate, and Momo served as Yun's AT-ST driver. He led the Scout through a ravine up to the eastern boundary of the group's patrol area. He reported that there was no trace of any patrol, debris or ozone resulting from a lightfight; he confirmed it was correct coordinates even though it seemed like a patrol was never there. Yun inquired whether he was familiar with the Bouncers, whom Aagon used to skin and keep in his corridor as trophy, which Momo knew, adding that it wasn't their area.Dark Forces: Jedi Knight audio drama Yun realised that the patrol left their area in order to go hunting, and ordered Momo to move to the smooth hardpan north where the Bouncers are found. Some time after the team reached a rocky area, and a company of Stormtroopers got out of the AT-AT and fanned out to inspect. Momo reported that there were some ruins nearby but not unusual for Ruusan. Momo stood perplexed as Yun mumbled to himself and pondered the presence of Rebels through the Force. The ground pounders discovered a helmet bearing the tag RW957, and Momo tugged on Yun's pant leg, who was standing at the top hatch. Yun checked the name on his datapad, and confirmed that the team was attacked by Kyle Katarn. Momo thought there was a chance to find the Rebels but Yun ordered to camp for the night insted. Momo pointed out that there were still two hours of daylight but Yun insisted, and Momo relayed the order to the units. Momo had a nice personality, young-looking face, and unlike most Stormtroopers he had never fired a single shot. Momo however wanted to promote a different image for himself and imagined himself as "Mad Dog", a callsign that his companions didn't find fitting to him and almost never used. Momo appeared in the novella Dark Forces: Jedi Knight. In the audio dramatization there is a dialogue where Momo is involved although the character is unnamed. James Cada and Tom Keith are credited as two different "Imperial Pilots". *Dark Forces: Jedi Knight *Dark Forces: Jedi Knight audio drama Category:Imperial Army officers of the Galactic Empire Category:Males Category:Pilots