39929
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/RW957
RW957
3563

RW957 was a stormtrooper assigned to Jerec's fleet in 5 ABY. He was killed on Ruusan. RW957 was one of the Stormtrooper squad assigned to Patrol 341 in the skimmer Z-19. Their leader, Lieutenant Aagon, suggested to abandon their orders and hunt the native bouncers. During that attempt they were attacked by Rebels who wished to protect the natives.Dark Forces: Jedi Knight Aagon ordered the skimmer landed, the troops exited and hid behind some rocks; as the skimmer left to round the Rebels, Aagon with six troopers he pressed forward. RW957 was at the end of the column. He felt protected, but he didn't know that some Rebels secretly sneaked behind them. He heard the rustling of clothes, when he felt an arm around his neck. Someone removed his helmet and he saw the moonlight reflected on a blade. He didn't have the time to shout for help. After the eradication of the team, the Rebels buried them and appropriated or hid their equipment, with their graves camouflaged by rocks. However a couple of days Jerec's forces were alerted by their absence and Yun was sent to the desert to find out what happened. A company of Stormtroopers and the ground pounders searched the area and reported the finding of RW957's helmet to Yun, confirming his theory that Aagon led them away from their authorized zone to hunt Bouncers.Dark Forces: Jedi Knight audio drama RW957 valued his life and had plans to ensure the best and safest positions within his job. Whenever it was possible he preferred to occupy the last position, the least likely to fall into a trap, be attacked or ordered forward, or hit by his rear companion. RW957 appears briefly in the novella Dark Forces: Jedi Knight where his last thoughts are exposed, and it is his helmet that is later found, which Yun confirms by checking his datapad. In the audio adaptation only the discovery of his helmet is described in dialogue and it is Momo who confirms that it belonged to a member of the patrol based on the designation number, which is not mentioned. According to the dialogue it was "shot through by a blaster bolt" contrasting the novella that suggests that his throat was cut with a knife. *Dark Forces: Jedi Knight *Dark Forces: Jedi Knight audio drama Category:Jerec's personnel Category:Males Category:Stormtroopers of the Galactic Empire