39930
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Aagon
Aagon
5673

Lieutenant Aagon was a human male stormtrooper who was assigned to Jerec's Vengeance Battle Group during the Galactic Civil War.Dark Forces: Jedi Knight Aagon was assigned to Jerec's during his quest for the Valley of the Jedi. After their arrival to Ruusan in 5 ABY, Aagon was part of his Vengeance Battle Group. Aagon was regularly leader of a squad, but he had the custom of remedying the boring duty and lifting the morale of his men by going to hunting against the Bouncers, the sentient native creatures of the planet; even if that meant abandoning their authorized area. His men kept some of their dead preys and kept them as trophies above their bunks in their quarters, and as for Aagon, he had skinned a dozen of them and decorated his corridor. Their companions didn't know where they came from. One fateful night he led Patrol 341 which included skimmer Zeta 19 with Sergeant Forley as helmsman and Leeno as gunner. They were escorted by two speeder bikes. They were ordered to patrol an area of ravines and gullies, but as usual he moved his unit ten klicks north, in a rocky maze where more bouncers could be found. Indeed, reaching there they found a group of natives bouncing in the air. The bikes's fire broke a rock pile and then split; the group of bouncers felt doomed and turned inward expecting inevitable the skimmer to slaughter them. He thought the speeders took too long and Speeder 1 replied that they were rounding up those who got away; as he was over comlink, he heard blaster shots. Jan Ors with a group of outlaw colonists were observing them from the rocks, and decided to save the aliens. He landed the skimmer and the troops hid behind some rocks; he ordered Forley to pin down the Rebels so that they'd attack from behind, and with six troopers he pressed forward. He had to explain to the Sergeant, whom he didn't consider very bright, that they have to find the Alliance to Restore the Republic who opened fire, and upon the suggestion to call for backup, Aagon reminded him that they were outside their designated zone and had to rely only on the skimmer. From the distance he saw some rocks exploding and some flare. He didn't know that the rebels also rounded them and silently slew the hindmost troopers. The Sergeant theorized that it was a hit and fade mission but Aagon believed that the Rebels were just hiding very well. He pulled himself up and drew his blaster but soreone behind touched and demanded to drop the gun. Nonetheless Aagon attempted to turn and kill the man; momentarily he was killed by his lightsaber. After the skirmish, the Rebels gathered all the bodies of the Imperials and carefully buried them, and collected all equipment that could potentially point o their involvement in the patrol's disappearance. Around two days after their expected return, searches were conducted in their designated area which returned nothing. Dark Jedi Yun was sent for ground inspection, who having seen the dead creatures hanged as trophies in his men's quarters, he determined the area of their disappearance. A resourceful officer, he valued fun and sport and kept his soldiers occupied on patrol by taking them to hunt the native Bouncers even if that meant outside of their patrol zone one night. While engaging the Rebels in the desert he decided not to call for reinforcement; not only because he was outside their designatede area, but also so as he took all the credit for the victory. In the audio adaptation of Dark Forces: Jedi Knight, he was voiced by Christopher Bloch. *Dark Forces: Jedi Knight *Dark Forces: Jedi Knight audio drama Category:Humans Category:Jerec's personnel Category:Males Category:Stormtrooper officers of the Galactic Empire