40364
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Lyshaa
Lyshaa
15139

dates the Battle of Brentaal IV, that includes the death of Lyshaa as shown in Jedi: Shaak Ti, to be before the Battle of the Kaliida Nebula, which is dated to 22 BBY per . |species=ZeltronJedi: Shaak Ti |gender=Female |pronouns=She/her |height= |mass= |hair=Purple |feathers= |eyes=Purple |skin=Pink |cyber= |families= |parents= |partners= |siblings= |children= |affiliation= |masters= |apprentices= }} Lyshaa was a renowned Zeltron murderer who killed her own family and the Jedi Fe Sun, the Padawan of Jedi Master Shaak Ti. Imprisoned for her crimes on the planet Brentaal IV, she participated in a prison breakout during a battle on the world during the Clone Wars in 22 BBY. Ti, fighting for the Galactic Republic in the battle, came across the Zeltron and agreed to let her free on the condition the Republic's mission was completed. The murderer used her Zeltron powers to seduce planetary leader and Separatist Shogar Tok in his fortress, before betraying Ti by shooting her. Now with a place at his side, Lyshaa exposed her former allies, but the Jedi Master was not dead as she thought she was. Ti fought the two, killing Tok and leading Lyshaa to flee. Rather than be captured once more and assuming the Jedi planned on killing her, Lyshaa chose suicide in the fortress's lightstorm chamber. thumb|right|350px|Lyshaa, Sagoro Autem, and Ryyk broke out of the Brentaal IV prison. Lyshaa was a renowned Zeltron female criminal and murderer who killed her own family in a fit of rage. She also murdered the Jedi Fe Sun, the Padawan of Jedi Master Shaak Ti. The Zeltron killed her in an effort to gain respect among her criminal peers, but she was hunted down by Ti and imprisoned on the Core Worlds planetThe Essential Atlas Brentaal IV before she had time to enjoy any perks. Lyshaa was also found guilty of the murder of her family as well. Years after the murder of Sun in 22 BBY, the Clone Wars, fought between the Galactic Republic and Confederacy of Independent Systems, had broken out. A battle occurred on Brentaal IV, during which Lyshaa and fellow prisoners&mdash;the Wookiee Ryyk and former Senate Guard Sagoro Autem&mdash;made a jailbreak, though they met resistance from local rebels. Ti, who was participating in the battle, entered the prison they were kept in to rally her troops. Coming across the prisoners, the Jedi Master and her clone troopers fought back against the rebels alongside them. After the fighting ended, Lyshaa and Ti confronted each other, before the Togruta turned her attention to Ryyk and freed the undercover Jedi Quinlan Vos, who joined up with Ti. The Togruta volunteered the prisoners to join her, offering them freedom after Lyshaa suggested it to make the deal better for them. The group then ventured into the prison sewers to infiltrate Separatist planetary leader Shogar Tok's fortress. While moving through the sewers, the Zeltron held a brief talk with Autem, revealing her distrust of Ti. The prisoner asked her why she offered the deal, to which she responded that she never thought the Jedi would take it. The group then came across a scrange that killed Ryyk. After pushing on, the group separated: Ti and Lyshaa would capture Tok, Vos and Autem would disable the fortress's tower cannons, and a clone trooper would attack the shield generator. thumb|left|400px|Shaak Ti saved Lyshaa's life in the lightstorm chamber. While with Ti, Lyshaa ended up in a lightstorm chamber, an automated protection device in the fortress. The Zeltron cleared the area before asking the Jedi where the Togruta planned to kill her. Ti told the murder not to move, though she did not listen and the Jedi had to use the Force to save her from the many lasers that appeared. Ti threw Lyshaa clear of them and made her way through the lasers, after which she found their communicator disabled. The Zeltron accused Ti of using her to test the room, which lead to an intense, one-way argument over the Jedi supposedly wanting her dead. Enraged, Lyshaa struck Ti across the face, to which the Togruta combated by pushing her to the floor. Ti explained that she needed her alive to make use of her ability to project emotions and control others. Lyshaa then told Ti that that view of Zeltrons was why she killed her Padawan and questioned if she was really going to set her free. The Togruta swore that she would, on the condition that the mission was completed. thumb|right|350px|Lyshaa chose death in the lightstorm chamber. Lyshaa made her way to Tok's private chambers, where she seduced him using her ability. Ti then entered and took control of the situation, trying to convince the planetary leader to stand his troopers down and accept the Republic. Taking the earliest opportunity,The New Essential Chronology Lyshaa decided to kill the Jedi and shot her in the chest, seemingly killing her. As Tok regained control of himself, the Zeltron explained that the Jedi was using mind-control powers and had allies disrupting his shield and weapons, before pledging her allegiance to him. After Tok dealt with Lyshaa's former allies, he asked how he could show his gratitude to her, to which she asked for a throne next to his. As that occurred, Ti regained consciousness and fought the two, killing Tok and making Lyshaa flee. Catching up with the murderer in the lightstorm chamber, Ti revoked the two's old agreement but offered her life. Thinking Ti just planned to kill her, Lyshaa chose to take her own life by tripping the defenses in the chamber. As her body lay smoking on the ground, the Jedi remarked that the murderer never understood and that she did not want revenge. Decades later in 36 ABY, Lsyhaa, and her betrayal of Ti, were documented in a New Republic historical document written by historian Voren Na'al. An unusually violent and malign Zeltron, Lyshaa's personality was characterized by untrustworthiness and vindictiveness. Though she was considered to be one of the most notorious of her species at the time, she did not reflect an accurate depiction of Zeltrons. In one instance, Lyshaa killed her family in a fit of rage and years after the fact, claimed that she killed Fe Sun for no other reason than to be seen as dangerous in the worlds she worked in where her species was seen as manipulative. thumb|left|350px|Lyshaa was a malign individual who did not represent Zeltrons as a whole. The Zeltron did not grasp why the death of Ryyk's family held importance to him, as she had killed hers. Lyshaa also taunted Shaak Ti by asking her if she had trained any new Padawans, and that she would love to cook them once freed from imprisonment. Lyshaa held the incorrect belief that the Jedi planned to kill her, taking revenge for the death of Fe Sun. The Zeltron struck Ti in a fit of rage on one occasion and decided to betray the Togruta by killing her and joining with Shogar Tok. Even after Ti willed to forgive Lyshaa and offered her life, the Zeltron committed suicide, out of an unwillingness to be captured and concluding that Ti wanted revenge. The young Zeltron had pink skin characteristic of her species, purple colored eyes, and hair colored purple as well. A scar cut through her left eyebrow and her hair was tied in many braids. Lyshaa possessed the Zeltron ability to project emotions onto others and controlling them, which she used to lull Tok into her confidence. The criminal proved the power to be dangerous in her hands, just as she was. While imprisoned on Brentaal IV, Lyshaa wore a yellow top, blue pants, and black boots. Accompanying the outfit were pairs of silver armbands and bracers and a brown belt with a holster. Light colored wrappings held her braids in place. While she participated in the prisoner revolt, she defended herself with a blaster pistol. After allying with Tok, Lyshaa took up dual swords to attack Ti. Lyshaa was first shown in both the Daniel Wallace written Comics Link department of the sixty-seventh issue of Star Wars Insider, published on April 15, 2003, and in the StarWars.com article "Shaak Ti in Command." The character was identified in the Dramatis Personnae section of the article, which was published the same day as the Insider article. Lyshaa then appeared in Jedi: Shaak Ti, the second issue in the Star Wars: Jedi one-shots. The issue, written by John Ostrander and illustrated by Jan Duursema, was published on May 14, 2003 by Dark Horse Comics. *Jedi: Shaak Ti }} *The New Essential Chronology *Star Wars: The Comics Companion *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Criminals Category:Females Category:Individuals with she/her pronouns Category:Zeltrons