40482
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/V-1_thermal_detonator
V-1 thermal detonator
4694

The V-1 thermal detonator was a small thermal detonator manufactured by Merr-Sonn Munitions, Inc. for service on the battlefield, becoming the primary grenade of choice for both sides of the Clone Wars. Specifically designed for battlefield deployment, the V-1 thermal detonator was of smaller caliber than more typical thermal detonators. Besides being more portable for soldiers, this effectively limited the size of the grenade's explosions, reducing the risk of friendly casualties. In spite of this, as a military model, its power was calibrated to maximize enemy casualties within its blast radius. It bore a similar design to the Class-A thermal detonator also manufactured by Merr-Sonn Munitions but had a slate-gray shell instead of the Class-A's reflective shell. During the Clone Wars, the V-1 thermal detonator was officially contracted to the Republic, whose Grand Army employed them, alongside the V-6 haywire grenade, as the standard grenades of its clone troopers. Unlike the V-6, clones of all units were issued the V-1, including clone sharpshooters, clone jet troopers, clone heavy troopers, and Advanced Recon Commandos. While the Republic was its official buyer, V-1 thermal detonators were widely sighted on the battlefield in the hands of the Confederacy of Independent Systems. Specialized B1-Series battle droids such as the assault battle droid and the battle droid assassin utilized them as part of their primary equipment, just like their clone counterparts. Responding to these reports, Merr-Sonn Munitions was keen on denying any accusations as to the sale of the thermal detonators to the enemy of the Republic. *Star Wars: Battlefront *Star Wars: Battlefront II *The Clone Wars: Mouse Hunt *Star Wars: The Clone Wars: Republic Heroes *Star Wars Battlefront: Prima Official Game Guide *Star Wars Battlefront II: Prima Official Game Guide *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Confederacy military Category:Merr-Sonn Munitions, Inc. products Category:Republic Military Category:Thermal detonators