40528
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Ina_Rece
Ina Rece
10086

|pronouns=She/her |height= |mass= |hair=Dark |feathers= |eyes= |skin=Light |cyber= |families= |parents= |partners= |siblings= |children= |affiliation=Alliance to Restore the Republic |masters= |apprentices= }} Ina Rece was a Human female starfighter pilot in the Alliance to Restore the Republic during the Galactic Civil War. As part of Rascal Squadron, Rece was sent to the Belt of Arah in 3 ABY to locate and disable the Empire's hidden mining facility. The Rebels successfully destroyed the mining facility, but Rece was killed in a surprise attack by three TIE Phantoms moments later. A Human woman born during the final years of the Galactic Republic,Rece was in her early thirties () during the events of Star Wars: Rebel Assault II: The Hidden Empire, which takes place in 3 ABY (The New Essential Chronology). This places her date of birth approximately ten years before the end of the Galactic Republic in 19 ABY (The New Essential Chronology). Ina Rece joined the Alliance to Restore the Republic during the Galactic Civil War, serving as a starfighter pilot in Rascal Squadron alongside her cousin and friend Captain Ace Merrick. thumb|left|250px|Rece's X-wing destroys a TIE interceptor. In 3 ABY&mdash;by which time Rece was in her early thirties&mdash;the Alliance learned that the Galactic Empire was processing oridium ore at a hidden mining facility in the Belt of Arah to fuel the TIE Phantom, a new cloaking device-equipped starfighter which the Dark Lord of the Sith Darth Vader intended to use to eliminate the Rebellion. In order to learn more about the new threat, Admiral Gial Ackbar dispatched Rece, Merrick and Rookie One in T-65 X-wing starfighters to the Dreighton Nebula to investigate the Belt of Arah and disable the mining facility. Rascal Squadron arrived at the Belt of Arah to find derillium mines scattered around the perimeter. Merrick led the Rebels through the asteroid field, destroying any mines they encountered along the way. The group cleared the outer perimeter but soon came under attack from numerous TIE interceptors. Rece scored multiple kills as the Rebels fought their way through the Imperial starfighters, including destroying one interceptor that Rookie One was unable to shake from his tail. The Rebels eventually reached the mining facility, built into one of the larger asteroids. The group entered the facility through a transport corridor designed for shuttles and cargo drones, in which Rookie One destroyed the shield emitters at an exchange junction, providing access to the reactor core. Evading fire from sentry guns&mdash;which mistook the X-wings for floating debris&mdash;the Rebels destroyed the reactor's cooling system and escaped through an exhaust vent moments before the reactor went critical, destroying the facility. Their mission complete, Rascal Squadron prepared to return to the Alliance Fleet. Moments before jumping to hyperspace, however, three TIE Phantoms decloaked behind them and opened fire, killing Merrick with their opening salvo. Taken by surprise, Rece was unable to evade and was killed when the TIE Phantoms destroyed her X-wing. Rookie One escaped and later proved instrumental in ending the threat of the TIE Phantoms. Rece was an energetic young woman who was considered to be attractive. She had dark hair, light skin, and a strong, playful, and often dry sense of humor which she continued to display during tense situations. Rece was a skilled pilot and a capable wingmate to Merrick. Ina Rece was created for the 1995 LucasArts video game Star Wars: Rebel Assault II: The Hidden Empire, in which she was portrayed by actress Nicole Galland. Rece appears in the levels "The Asteroid Field", "Interceptor Attack" and "The Mining Facility." If Rookie One is killed during any of these levels, a game over cutscene shows Rece and Merrick continuing the mission without him. thumb|right|200px|Red Leader's flight helmet from Star Wars: Episode IV A New Hope Rebel Assault II designer Vincent Lee's storyboards and scripts document, dated November 16, 1994, included a brief description of Rece.Rogue Leaders: The Story of LucasArts Though not included in the game or its manual, the biography was adapted for use on the LucasArts website and the document was later printed in Rob Smith's Rogue Leaders: The Story of LucasArts. The version that appeared online places Rece in her early thirties during the game whereas Lee's original version described her as early twenties. Lee also made notes on the actors he thought most resembled each character in the game, choosing Janine Turner to represent Rece. Props and costumes created for the original trilogy of Star Wars movies were used during the filming of Rebel Assault II. The flight helmet worn by Rece is the same design as that worn by Red LeaderStar Wars Costumes: The Original Trilogy Garven Dreis in Star Wars: Episode IV A New Hope, Nichos Panib in Star Wars: Episode V The Empire Strikes Back, and a background character in Star Wars: Episode VI Return of the Jedi. *Star Wars: Rebel Assault II: The Hidden Empire *Rogue Leaders: The Story of LucasArts Category:Alliance Starfighter Corps personnel Category:Females Category:Humans