40703
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Matale_family
Matale family
3358

In 3956 BBY,The New Essential Chronology the Matale family was composed of two members: Ahlan Matale, the father, and Shen Matale, his son. They lived in a private estate on Dantooine. The Matale family had a long running feud with the Sandral family. Even with assistance from the Jedi Enclave on the planet, no compromise could be reached to settle the arguing. After the disappearance of Nurik Sandral's son, Casus Sandral, Nurik believed Casus had been killed by the Matales and kidnapped Shen in retaliation. When the Jedi Revan arrived at the Sandral estate as an amnesiac Padawan, he was told of the kidnapping by Nurik's daughter and Shen's lover, Rahasia Sandral. Due to Revan's intervention, Shen escaped with Rahasia, but both were ambushed by their parents outside the estate. Revan was able to convince the fathers to allow their kids to live their own lives, and the two patriarchs agreed to purchase a new house for their offspring to reside in together. In content cut from Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic II: The Sith Lords, Kaevee would have told the Jedi Exile that all members of the Matale family were killed and their estate was burned when the Sith Empire invaded Dantooine prior to the events of that game. Since this was ultimately cut from the final game, however, this is considered non-canon.Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic II: The Sith Lords If Revan fails to persuade Ahlan or Nurik to allow their children to marry, Shen and Rahasia run away to the Jedi Enclave, leaving their families behind. Revan can also convince Shen to leave Rahasia and return home with his father. Another possibility is that Revan helps Shen escape with Rahasia and is then confronted by Ahlan Matale and Nurik Sandral, who are accompanied by two battle droids each; Revan can incite violence between the two families and the result is Nurik, Ahlan, Shen, and Rahasia are killed. Revan can then lie about this to the Jedi Council. *Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic *Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic II: The Sith Lords *Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic: Prima's Official Strategy Guide *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Dantooinians Matale