40818
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Morvet_Storm
Morvet Storm
4205

Morvet Storm was a male Human Jedi Knight who served the Jedi Order during the final years of the Galactic Republic. He was a survivor of Contingency Order 66, a treasonous order designed to wipe out the Jedi, Storm hid from the Galactic Empire for two years until being hunted down and slain by Darth Vader. Morvet Storm was trained in the ways of the Force, and constructed an orange-bladed lightsaber. Storm eventually became a Jedi Knight, and honed his ability of Farsight, developing acute accuracy at divining future events. Among his visions, he foresaw the name of his unborn grandson, 'Havet Storm'. At some point during his career, Storm violated the bylaws of the Order and began a family without the permission or knowledge of the Jedi High Council. Fathering a child, Storm hid this from the rest of the Order or risk being expelled from its ranks. Jedi Storm's involvement is unknown, however, it is known that he managed to escape the execution of Contingency Order 66 and the start of the Great Jedi Purge that heralded the rise of the Galactic Empire. A fugitive during the early days of the Imperial Period, Storm and his family went into hiding, traveling from planet to planet to avoid being found by the Empire. During the constant moving, Storm took the time to record a message for his unborn grandson Havet and stored it in the memory banks of his personal K-9 series droid called Arf. In the message he explained to his future grandchild that he was a Jedi and that Havet had within him the potential to become one too. Storm also hid within the droid his old lightsaber, a gift for his grandson should he ever need it. As Storm ended the message, the Empire attacked his location, led by Darth Vader himself. As the recording continued, Storm could be heard to cry "Vader! Has it finally come to this?" As Storm was slain after a brief duel with the Sith Lord, he left his grandson with a brief warning: "Havet&hellip; the dark side&hellip; the death of all Jedi. Never reveal&hellip; never&hellip;" Storm's grandson eventually received his grandfather's gifts and, thanks to the insight and guidance Storm had provided through the audio recording, Havet joined the Rebellion against the Empire and successfully stole the technical specifications to the Death Star's superlaser. Thus Storm's legacy lived on. *Jedi Dawn *The Bounty Hunter Category:Humans Category:Jedi Purge victims Category:Males Category:Post-Ruusan Jedi Knights