40942
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Astri_Oddo
Astri Oddo
6010

Astri Oddo was a cook, adopted daughter of Didi Oddo, and pre-owner of Dex's Diner. Astri served as the cook at Didi's Cafe, owned by her adoptive father, Didi Oddo, who found her at the doorstep of the cafe. She came to meet Qui-Gon Jinn and his apprentice Obi-Wan Kenobi through her father. Later, when Obi-Wan's Master was captured and her father shot by the bounty hunter Ona Nobis, she went with Obi-Wan to find Jenna Zan Arbor, who held Qui-Gon Jinn captive, and the cure for Didi. She then "married a homesteader in the Outer Rim."Jedi Quest: The Trail of the Jedi She was later married to Senator Bog Divinian, by whom she had a son, Lune Oddo Divinian. However, with the Jedi's help she left Bog behind for a long while, after taking up Nuralee as her adopted homeworld. In 18 BBY, she sabotaged the computer systems of the planet Samaria with the permission of prime minister Aaren Larker, prompting Emperor Palpatine to send Ferus Olin to hunt her down. However, the ex-Jedi instead helped her and her son escape the clutches of the Galactic Empire, and relocate on an secret asteroid base located in an atmospheric storm near the planet of Acherin. Later, she as well as her son Lune went to live in the Orange Sector of Coruscant, in the safe house of Dex. She spent much time with the Erased and trusted them enough to send Keets Freely and Curran Caladian to look after Lune. Unfortunately Imperial Stormtroopers kidnapped Lune to train as an Imperial Pilot. But Dexter sent Trever Flume and Ferus Olin to save him. She was very grateful to have Lune returned. When a mysterious young woman named Flam arrived to create a Rebellion team called Moonstrike, a friend of Ferus, Clive Flax, suspected her as an Imperial spy. He asked Astri to help. They then discovered that Flame was in fact Eve Yarrow, and that she was in league with the Sith Lord Darth Vader. Clive and her then contacted the base, warning them of this. After the base was destroyed by Vader's superweapon, Astri and Clive agreed to adopt Trever after his memory was wiped to protect him, making him forget what he knew about Darth Vader's real identity and everything that happened in the last year. Astri was killed along with Clive and Trever in their attempt to destroy an Imperial factory on Bellazura. Their son, Lune Divinian was unable to participate in the battle, and thus survived. *Jedi Apprentice: The Deadly Hunter *Jedi Apprentice: The Evil Experiment *Jedi Apprentice: The Dangerous Rescue *Jedi Quest: Path to Truth *Jedi Quest 3 *Jedi Quest: The Trail of the Jedi *Jedi Quest: The Dangerous Games *Jedi Quest: The False Peace *The Last of the Jedi: A Tangled Web *The Last of the Jedi: Return of the Dark Side *The Last of the Jedi: Secret Weapon *The Last of the Jedi: Against the Empire *The Last of the Jedi: Master of Deception *The Last of the Jedi: Reckoning *Rebel Force: Firefight *Rebel Force: Trapped *Rebel Force: Uprising *Coruscant and the Core Worlds *Star Wars: The Official Starships & Vehicles Collection 4 *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia *The Essential Reader's Companion Category:Business owners and executives Category:Coruscanti Category:Females Category:Humans Category:Resistance fighters Category:Slicers Category:Waiters