41691
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Artuo_Pratuhr
Artuo Pratuhr
11176

|gender= |pronouns=He/him |height= |mass= |hair=Brown |feathers= |eyes= |skin=Light |cyber= |families= |parents= |partners= |siblings= |children= |affiliation= |masters= |apprentices= }} Artuo Pratuhr was a Human archaeologist who was the mentor of his assistant Zey Nep, and a patron of the Outlander Club on the planet Coruscant in the final days of the Galactic Republic. He contacted the Lorrdian Seib Nod, interested in selling her stolen relics to the Galactic Museum on Coruscant. In 22 BBY, Pratuhr, Nep, and Nod met at the Outlander Club, though Nod did not plan to part with her relics and pulled a blaster on the archaeologist. Pratuhr tracked down Nod with the help of Nep, took the thief to the authorities, and returned the relics to the Sisterhood. thumb|right|350px|Artuo Pratuhr was a patron of the Outlander Club (pictured). Artuo Pratuhr was a Human archaeologist and, during the final days of the Galactic Republic, a patron of the Outlander Club, a nightclub and gambling hall located in the Uscru Entertainment District of the planetStar Wars: Complete Locations Coruscant. Pratuhr was the mentor of his assistant Zey Nep, and he was associated with Nep's friends Dixon Just and Civ Sila. At some point by 22 BBY,The New Essential Chronology dates the events of to 22 BBY. Seib Nod's escape from the Outlander Club as shown in her Databank entry must happen after the altercation between Obi-Wan Kenobi and Zam Wesell as both Nod and Artuo Pratuhr are both in the club at that time. Seib Nod, a Lorrdian former member of the religious group Sisterhood of the Beatific Countenance, came to Coruscant inquiring about selling her relics she stole from the Sisterhood. While on the planet, Pratuhr contacted her, interested in buying the relics off of Nod to sell to the Galactic Museum in Coruscant's CoCo Town. In 22 BBY,The New Essential Chronology dates the events of to 22 BBY. The scene from Jango Fett: Bounty Hunter in which Jango Fett is in the Outlander Club takes place immediately before the film, therefore meaning it must be set in that year. Pratuhr, his assistant, and Civ Sila visited the Outlander Club. While they visited, the bounty hunters Zam Wesell and Jango Fett were also visiting, making preparations to assassinate Senator Padmé Amidala.Jango Fett: Bounty Hunter During a night shortly after, Pratuhr, Nep, and Sila visited the Outlander Club again, this time with Dixon Just. Wesell again revisited, trying to escape from the Jedi Obi-Wan Kenobi and Anakin Skywalker after her assassination attempt on Amidala. After the Jedi entered, Pratuhr and Nep walked behind the pair. The archaeologist and his associates then talked next to a turbolift as Kenobi was at the bar. Just moments after, Wesell was disarmed by Kenobi when she tried to ambush him. Pratuhr's group stared at the Jedi as they helped the injured bounty hunter up. Skywalker then told the clubgoers to go back to their drinks. thumb|left|200px|Seib Nod (pictured) committed armed robbery against Artuo Pratuhr. After the altercation, Pratuhr and Nep met with Nod in an alcove of the club. Though he was suspicious, Nod assured the archaeologist that the sale was permitted by the Sisterhood in an attempt to quietly raise funds. In actuality, the criminality of Coruscant had changed her, and she pulled a blaster on Pratuhr and stole his money before escaping the club. Not wanting to lose his money, Pratuhr used his underground connections to locate Nod as she attempted to flee Coruscant. A few days later he located Nod racing unarmed to the dock she was using to leave, recognizing her from her robes and facial tattoos. Nod thought he was foolish for coming unarmed, but she knew she was beaten when Nep, disguised as a refugee, jabbed a blaster in her back. The archaeologist turned the woman over to the authorities who arrived at the scene shortly after, landing her charges of theft and armed robbery, and imprisonment at the CoCo Penitentiary. Pratuhr turned the relics back to the Sisterhood. Artuo Prathur was an adventurous archaeologist with light skin and brown hair that grayed by 22 BBY.The New Essential Chronology dates the events of to 22 BBY. Pratuhr had suspicions of the Sisterhood relics stolen by Seib Nod. When he finally had the relics, he returned them to their rightful owners. While at the Outlander Club, Pratuhr wore a dark outift, that appeared similar to a spacer's outfit. thumb|right|200px|Artuo Pratuhr first appeared in Jango Fett: Bounty Hunter. Artuo Pratuhr appeared in the prequel trilogy film Star Wars: Episode II Attack of the Clones, portrayed by Droid Unit supervisor Don Bies, in the Outlander Club scenes shot at Fox Studios, Sydney on July 17, 2000.Mythmaking: Behind the Scenes of Attack of the Clones Prior to the film's release, Pratuhr was first pictured in the documentary "A Twinkle Beyond Pluto," released on July 31, 2001, The character would go on to make his first appearance in an illustration in Jango Fett: Bounty Hunter, a young readers book written by Eric Arnold and illustrated by Valerie Reckert that was published on April 23, 2002. Episode II later released on May 16, 2002.Star Wars Year by Year: A Visual Chronicle Pratuhr was first identified on April 6, 2004, with the publication of "Who's Who in the Outlander Club: It's Ladies' Night," an article written by Daniel Wallace in the seventy-fifth issue of the Star Wars Insider. Pratuhr's name comes from "R2-D2 operator." *Jango Fett: Bounty Hunter *Star Wars: Attack of the Clones Scrapbook *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Archaeologists Category:Humans Category:Individuals of unspecified gender Category:Individuals with he/him pronouns