41742
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/New_Centrif
New Centrif
10761

New Centrif was a city on the planet Naboo inhabited by Humans. It contained a transmitter for off-world communications as well as residential and military buildings and processing centers for natural resources such as food, nova crystals, and ore. The city was considered well defended with troopers, Tuskcat Troopers, and V-19 landspeeders protecting it along with two turrets at its gated northern entrance. In 32 BBY, the Trade Federation targeted the New Centrif transmitter in the first stage of their Invasion of Naboo, and Viceroy Nute Gunray sent the B1-Series battle droid OOM-9 with a small task force to carry the attack out. OOM-9 chose not to attack New Centrif first despite landing close to it, instead directing his forces toward the nearby city of Vis to destroy its transmitter. There, OOM-9 gained reinforcements from the droid EEK-176, and together they attacked New Centrif from its less defended southern entrance and razed the city and its transmitter. New Centrif was a city on the Mid RimThe Essential Atlas planet Naboo, loyal to the Royal House of Naboo and inhabited by the Human Naboo people. It was located west of the city Vis and north of the city Parrlay and was bordered by forests on the eastern and western sides. A paved path led into the northern entrance of the city, which was connected to Vis by a dirt track, and the southern entrance connected a paved road down to Parrlay and another path stretching north around the forest to the southern entrance of Vis. The ground in New Centrif was covered in pavement and grass, and the buildings and walls were consistently decorated with orange patterns. thumb|left|300px|South New Centrif Two flags were placed ahead of the northern entrance, which resembled a cul-de-sac aside from the gate.Star Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds: Prima's Official Strategy Guide Two lines of light walls stretched northward from the gate. Inside the entrance, two defensive turrets were built, giving New Centrif a well-defended appearance. Toward the west of the entrance were a small well and a gazebo. Trees and flowers grew throughout that decorative area, and a small light wall and several trees served as a border between it and the rest of the city. Two residential buildings were located south of the gate along with a transmitter that supported off-world communications. The transmitter was placed on a raised piece of land, was surrounded by a light wall, and was also powered by a power core close to the western forest. The center of the city was occupied by a monument, and northeast of it was a troop center and two more residential buildings. On the center-east, a power core was built, which supported the troop center and two residential buildings toward the southwest and one in the northeast corner. A small light wall was situated southeast between the buildings and the forest. At the southern area of New Centrif was a food processing center, where the goods from three farms that were harvested by PKN-49 worker droids were stored. In the southeastern side was a nova processing center, where more droids collected nova crystals from a nearby stockpile. Southwest of the farms, an ore processing center gathered ore from another stockpile. In 32 BBY, Naboo was invaded by the Trade Federation, which initially targeted the transmitters in New Centrif, Vis, and Parrlay to prevent word of their invasion from reaching the galactic capital of Coruscant. Trade Federation Viceroy Nute Gunray sent the B1-Series battle droid OOM-9 with a small task force of the Trade Federation Droid Army, which included eight battle droids, four heavy beetle droid units, and two Single Trooper Aerial Platform units to destroy the transmitters. OOM-9's forces landed a C-9979 landing craft north of New Centrif and marched toward the city. At the time of the invasion, New Centrif was defended by a total of seventeen troopers, five Tuskcat Troopers,Star Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds: Clone Campaigns and three V-19 landspeeders. thumb|right|300px|New Centrif under attack by the Trade Federation As the droids drew nearer, OOM-9 observed that New Centrif was well defended and that reinforcements would be required before taking the city. He turned the army on the path east to Vis, where they were joined with reinforcements led by the droid EEK-176, and together they destroyed the Vis transmitter. The combined forces took the route that connected Vis to the south of New Centrif, which was less defended than the main northern entrance due to a lack of gates and walls. At the city, the droids gunned down the soldiers and labor droids near the nova crystal deposits, at which point the vast majority of New Centrif's population descended upon the invaders. OOM-9 fought them off with the battle droids and his personal Heavy Armored Assault Tank, keeping his beetle droids in reserve. With New Centrif's inhabitants killed, OOM-9 sent the beetle droids in to raze the city, including the transmitter. EEK-176 immediately reported the result to Gunray. thumb|right|275px|An alternate depiction of New Centrif from Star Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds: Prima's Official Strategy Guide, featuring a spaceport instead of a transmitter New Centrif was first mentioned in Star Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds: Prima's Official Strategy Guide by Steven L. Kent, released on November 7, 2001, before appearing in the LucasArts video game Star Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds, released on November 11 the same year. The city appears in the first level of the Trade Federation campaign, entitled "Beachhead," where the player controls the Trade Federation forces. The strategy guide states that if the player attempts to attack New Centrif straight away without gaining reinforcements, they would have a difficult time winning the level since the city entrance can trap the player's units in a small area. The guide also describes the objective of the level as destroying spaceports in the Naboo cities instead of transmitters, with the book including a picture of a spaceport in the location that the transmitter occupied in the game. The turrets at the entrance are not present if the player attempts the level in easy mode but are present in moderate and hard difficulties. Three of the royal troopers and two V-19 landspeeders are also only present in the hard difficulty. In the original version of Galactic Battlegrounds, the mounted Naboo troopers rode kaadu, which were replaced with tusk cats in the 2002 expansion, Clone Campaigns. *Star Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds *Star Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds: Clone Campaigns *Star Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds: Prima's Official Strategy Guide Category:Cities on Naboo Category:Destroyed cities