41790
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Ganne
Ganne
15951

}} Ganne was an Ankura Gungan who served as the boss of the city Rellias on the planet Naboo. In 32 BBY, during the Trade Federation's Invasion of Naboo, Ganne was sought out by the Federation-aligned Sith apprentice Darth Maul so that the Trade Federation Droid Army could attack Otoh Gunga, the Gungan capital. Maul and half a company of battle droids traversed through the Gungan Swamp to find Rellias, and instead they encountered an ambush from Ganne's forces. The droids defeated the Gungans, and Ganne was personally captured by Maul, who mind tricked the boss into guiding them through the Gates of Rellias to Otoh Gunga. He attempted to resist Maul's use of the Force but was unable to do so. On the journey through the Rellias Straits via an S-DST, an aquatic destroyer, the Sith resorted to tying Ganne to the bow as a figurehead to prevent Gungan attacks from the shorelines. At the capital, Maul realized that the Gungans had already evacuated the city, so he planned to mind trick Ganne into revealing where their leader, Boss Rugor Nass, had gone. However, the Ankura Gungan was able to resist. Maul therefore used his lightsaber to torture Ganne into revealing that Nass was at the Gungan Sacred Place, resulting in Ganne's death. Ganne was an Ankura Gungan from the planet Naboo. By the time of the Invasion of Naboo by the Trade Federation in the year 32 BBY, Ganne was the boss of the underwater city Rellias. Following the Trade Federation's conquest of Naboo's Human capital city Theed, the company's leadership turned its attention to defeating the Gungans, fearful of the threat they posed. The Trade Federation had difficulty locating the Gungans until a captured mariner from the city Harte Secur told the B1 battle droid OOM-9 about Ganne and Rellias. The droids were, however, unable to locate Rellias until their ally, the Sith apprentice Darth Maul, learned Rellias's location and Ganne's name from the Bothan surveyor Leika. thumb|right|300px|Darth Maul and several battle droids search for Ganne. Maul ordered a patrol of Single Trooper Aerial Platforms (STAPs) to scout the Gungan Swamp, and he, alongside OOM-9, traveled through a channel to Rellias aboard an S-DST&mdash;a type of aquatic destroyer&mdash;with half a company of B1 battle droids and a contingent of droidekas. At a set of stone fortifications, Gungans under Ganne's command waited for the droids. When they arrived, Ganne launched a multi-pronged attack. Militiagungs fired projectile weapons at the STAPs, bongo submersibles emerged from the channel to attack the destroyer, and catapults strapped to fambaas fired boomas at the droids. The S-DST beached itself to allow the droids aboard to disembark, where Ganne led a kaadu cavalry charge against them alongside an Ankura Gungan general. thumb|left|200px|Ganne led a kaadu cavalry (one pictured) charge against the Trade Federation. Maul leapt from the destroyer and into the air where he clung to the footrest of a STAP. At a distance twenty meters from Ganne, the Sith used the Force to launch himself through a score of mounted Gungans, tearing them apart with his lightsaber. When he was five meters from the boss, Maul leapt again, decapitating the general with his lightsaber and pulling Ganne from his mount with his left hand. The boss rose to his feet and scrambled to retrieve his electropole, but Maul knocked it away, grabbed Ganne by the ears and pulled him to a treeline away from the battle. The boss's eyes were rolling around and he began to drool. Maul initially brought the lightsaber closer to Ganne's face, but decided to deactivate it so that he could mind trick him instead. Maul asked Ganne for the direction to Otoh Gunga, the Gungan capital, and the mind-tricked boss responded that they needed to take the route through the Rellias Straits. Maul yanked the boss's ears and ordered him to open the Gates of Rellias for the Trade Federation Droid Army as they arrived. Maul was satisfied with his successful manipulation of Ganne as he dragged the boss to his feet and to the S-DST. Maul and the remaining droids used the destroyer to navigate through the Rellias Straits. At the gates, Ganne attempted to resist betraying his people, but he relented after further Force use from Maul. The droids proceeded through gates through to Lake Paonga, which contained Otoh Gunga under its surface. thumb|right|300px|Under Maul's control, Ganne led the Trade Federation to the Rellias Straits (entrance pictured). Groups of militiagungs appeared on the lake's shoreline and fired at the Trade Federation until Maul secured Ganne to the bow of the S-DST. The Gungans ceased their attacks for the remainder of the destroyer's passage to Otoh Gunga and only brandished their electropoles while screaming war cries. As OOM-9 ordered depth charges detonated throughout the lake and sent submersibles to investigate the city, Maul realized that Otoh Gunga's residents had heard of the fall of Rellias and evacuated. Determined to find the location of Otoh Gunga's boss, Rugor Nass, Maul stormed to retrieve Ganne from the bow and interrogated him, but the boss was able to resist the Sith's mind tricks. Maul snorted and thought that Ganne was not as primitive as he had expected. He changed tactics, igniting his lightsaber to begin torturing Ganne, who slowly revealed that Nass was at the Gungan Sacred Place. Maul felt that Ganne's resistance had showed honor, and once the boss had died, Maul rolled his blistered corpse into the water. OOM-9 waited until after Maul was finished with the Gungan to tell him that Trade Federation Viceroy Nute Gunray needed to inform Maul that the Human Queen of Naboo, Padmé Amidala, had returned to the planet. The Sith apprentice later used the information gained from Ganne to spy on the Gungans after they formed an alliance with the queen. An Ankura Gungan with green skin, Boss Ganne served as the leader of Rellias and commanded Gungan forces during the Siege of Otoh Gunga. He was weak-willed enough to be susceptible to Maul's mind trick, coming under the Sith apprentice's control. He attempted to resist after initially succumbing, and in Maul's estimation, demonstrated honor through his resistance. The boss revealed the Gungan's secret location under torture but only did so slowly and after enduring significant pain. Ganne was able to lead his people into battle and was agile in spite of his girth. During the Siege of Otoh Gunga, Ganne rode a kaadu, which he used to lead a cavalry charge. He carried a staff which he could use as a weapon and wielded an electropole during the cavalry charge. Ganne wore brown robes. Boss Ganne was created for the 2001 LucasArts video game Star Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds, released on November 11, 2001, in which he was voiced by Neil Kaplan. The character was first mentioned in the Prima strategy guide by Steven L. Kent,Star Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds: Prima's Official Strategy Guide released on November 7, 2001. Ganne appears in "The Search for an Underwater Kingdom," the fifth level of the Trade Federation campaign. The character can also be included in player-made custom scenarios, and his name can appear as the leader of an enemy faction in the standard game mode. The events of "The Search for an Underwater Kingdom" were adapted in the short story "End Game" by James Luceno, published in the 2012 re-release of the novelization of the 1999 prequel trilogy film Star Wars: Episode I The Phantom Menace. The short story portrayed significant differences in the events concerning Ganne compared to those in the video game, in which the entire sequence involving Ganne takes place on land, rather than aboard an S-DST in a river channel as portrayed in "End Game." This article primarily follows the short story's events, with contradicting events from Galactic Battlegrounds and the Prima guide detailed below. thumb|right|250px|Darth Maul approaches Ganne in Galactic Battlegrounds. In "The Search for an Underwater Kingdom," the player is tasked with finding Ganne so that he can lead the Trade Federation to Rellias, and therefore Otoh Gunga. Ganne rides a kaadu and resides behind a command center in a compound north of Rellias, defended by militiagungs, kaadu troopers, and catapaults. The player's forces, led by Darth Maul, are required to break through the Gungan defenses and destroy the command center, which the Prima guide recommends the player use energy pummels to do. The player has to send Maul to approach Ganne, who is shocked by the Zabrak's devilish appearance. Maul mind tricks Ganne into telling him how the droids can access Otoh Gunga, with the boss revealing that they need to access the Gates of Rellias to the southwest. Ganne accompanies the Trade Federation forces to Rellias and can even be made to fight the Gungans beside them. Once they reach the Gates of Rellias, Ganne attempts to resist Maul's command to open them but is unable to do so. The Trade Federation forces defeat the Gungans at Rellias and reach the entrance to Lake Paonga. The Prima guide notes that the only real way that the player can lose the level is if Ganne is killed. *Star Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds *Star Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds: Clone Campaigns *Star Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds: Prima's Official Strategy Guide Category:Ankura Gungans Category:Bosses Category:Individuals of unspecified gender Category:Individuals with he/him pronouns Category:Naboo residents