41961
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Sixtus_Quin
Sixtus Quin
4560

Sixtus Quin was an Imperial Special Intelligence operative who later defected to the Alliance to Restore the Republic. He eventually left the Rebel Alliance and went into business with Elscol Loro, forming an anti-Imperial mercenary organization. thumb|left|180px|Sixtus Quin Quin and his elite squad left the Empire after being betrayed by Captain Marl Semtin. Sixtus killed Semtin at Eidolon Base on Tatooine, and his squad joined forces with former Rogue Squadron pilot Elscol Loro to form an anti-Imperial mercenary group. Sixtus and Elscol would later be recruited by the members of Rogue Squadron in 7 ABY after the Rogues left the New Republic to wage the Bacta War against Ysanne Isard. Sixtus, Elscol, Mirax Terrik, Iella Wessiri, and Corran Horn were inserted into Thyferra to create a native Vratix insurgency and defeat Isard's forces on the planet. Despite a skirmish at the spaceport and attacks on the Vratix by Isard's troops, Sixtus was able to create a formidable resistance force. Sixtus was part of a strike team that launched a raid on the Dlarit estate to humiliate Erisi Dlarit's father, Aerin Dlarit. As the Rogues and their allies engaged Isard's flagship Lusankya over Thyferra, Sixtus and the insurgents attacked Isard's headquarters, eventually capturing Fliry Vorru, although Isard escaped in a shuttle. Ultimately, the Bacta War was a success and Isard was presumed killed. Michael A. Stackpole did not originally intend Sixtus to be black; he was made that way by John Nadeau, the illustrator of Star Wars: X-Wing Rogue Squadron: Battleground: Tatooine.Star Wars Handbook 1: X-Wing Rogue Squadron Although his military rank is never given, according to his rank badge, Sixtus could have been either a Lieutenant or a Captain during his time in the Imperial forces. *X-Wing Rogue Squadron 11 *X-Wing Rogue Squadron 12 *X-Wing: The Bacta War *Star Wars Encyclopedia *Star Wars Handbook 1: X-Wing Rogue Squadron *A Guide to the Star Wars Universe, Third Edition, Revised and Expanded *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Antilles's Rogues Category:Humans Category:Imperial defectors Category:Imperial Intelligence personnel of the Galactic Empire Category:Males