42057
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Brasck
Brasck
5371

Brasck was a Brubb smuggler and mercenary. Brasck was a Brubb male native to Baros, born in 25 BBY. His homeworld, located in the Unknown Regions of the galaxy, was discovered by Imperial Grand Admiral Thrawn, who subjugated the world and taught it to fear and respect the Galactic Empire. Brasck never forgot the stories of Thrawn's time on Baros told to him as a child, or the harsh lessons the Grand Admiral taught his people, and forever feared the Empire. Brasck eventually left Baros when he was recruited as a mercenary by Jabba Desilijic Tiure, a powerful Hutt crime lord operating out of Tatooine and Nar Shaddaa. According to Brasck, he had no choice but to work for Jabba, but he went about his job with zeal and relish, adopting some of Jabba's unscrupulous methods. Brasck acted as one of Jabba's numerous "hatchetmen," a hired gun who assassinated Jabba's personal rivals and taught lessons to any employees or business partners who displayed a lack of loyalty to the Hutt.Galaxy Guide 11: Criminal Organizations His was considered a heartless and unsavory character, but also brutally efficient.The Last Command Sourcebook Brasck was considered one of the major players operating in the Borderland Regions between the New Republic and Imperial space. Prior to the Battle of Endor, Brasck worked as a mercenary for Jabba the Hutt. When Jabba died, Brasck grabbed as many followers as he could and set up his own smuggling operation, which included kidnapping and slavery. thumb|left|150px|Brasck Brasck set up his headquarters aboard the starship Green Palace, a vessel he kept in constant transit in the hope that such a tactic would help him void Jabba's fate. He was constantly in fear of ambush and assassination and this he always wore body armor and kept several weapons hidden on himself. He would later partner with Billey, realizing that there was strength in numbers. Before Karrde's offer of a smuggler's alliance, Brasck had decided that his organization was well-equipped to obtain the bounty on Luke Skywalker, despite the fact that it was Luke and his rebel friends who had killed Jabba and given Brasck the chance to rise to power. Brasck was forced to turn down Karrde's offer of an alliance, primarily because he was worried about Imperial retribution. However, Brasck agreed that he would not interfere with the alliance, nor would he tell the Imperials about its existence. In the comic adaptation, Brasck is erroneously portrayed as a Trandoshan. *Heir to the Empire *The Last Command *The Last Command 2 *The Last Command 3 *Heir to the Empire Sourcebook *A Guide to the Star Wars Universe, Second Edition, Revised and Expanded *The Last Command Sourcebook *Galaxy Guide 11: Criminal Organizations *The Thrawn Trilogy Sourcebook *Pirates & Privateers *Star Wars Encyclopedia *A Guide to the Star Wars Universe, Third Edition, Revised and Expanded *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Brubbs Category:Desilijic servants Category:Enslavers Category:Males Category:Mercenaries Category:Smugglers' Alliance members