42296
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Clan
Clan
5011

A clan was the familial and often political organization that made up a society. Clan-based cultures included Rodians, Bothans,Shadows of the Empire Planets Guide Witches of Dathomir,The Courtship of Princess Leia Mandalorians,Star Wars: The Old Republic Noghri,The Last Command Trandoshans,Star Wars Galaxies: Rage of the Wookiees Wookiees,Star Wars: Revenge of the Sith: The Visual Dictionary Codru-Ji,Legacy (2006) 13 and Twi'leks.X-Wing Rogue Squadron 11 Since ancient times, Rodians were a tribal society. A clan was ruled by a Chief Protector, and associated with some land and/or enclave; enclaves grew later into cities, and some absorbed other smaller enclaves as they grew. Clan members were sometimes wholly dedicated to some profession, organization or criminal syndicate. In later times, clans were also political entities, and were often allies or enemies with each other; their skirmishes sometimes escalated to planetary war. Affiliation was often a private matter that was not usually obvious or publicly shared; Rodians who revealed their clan risked being exposed to Rodians of enemy clans that could be present. Warfare, geography and other factors shaped the development of each clan; some weaker clans remained isolated in their ancestral lands in the jungle, and limited to older technology. Newer clans were usually small groups that split from traditional clans, often supporting radical views; as these emerged in the cities, they possessed no lands. The Chattza Clan emerged dominant after the Rodian Clan Wars. Representatives from the clans comprised the Bothan Council. By the year 3 ABY, the Bothan Council was composed of 608 registered Clans, with 53 new Clans petitioning for legal status. During the New Republic era, the Clans were collectively known as the Combined Bothan Clans.Specter of the Past One could tell a Bothan's Clan by the suffix in their name. The "Lon" in Tereb Ab'Lon for instance denoted he was either from the Ilon or Alon Clan. A Bothan without such a suffix was usually considered a dishonored outcast. Several Bothan clans assisted the Dressellians during the Galactic Civil War by supplying them with strategic information and thousands of slugthrower rifles.The Essential Guide to Weapons and Technology Wookiees also belonged to clans, such as Chevappa, Chyakk, Gkrur, Grrobahrr, Kachirho, Myyydril, Nysshyyyk, Puurrgerr, Strongfist and Tojj. *Specter of the Past *Cracken's Rebel Operatives *Star Wars Miniatures Battles Companion *Galaxy Guide 12: Aliens — Enemies and Allies *Shadows of the Empire Sourcebook *Star Wars: The Roleplaying Game, Second Edition, Revised and Expanded *Shadows of the Empire Planets Guide *The Essential Guide to Weapons and Technology *Alien Encounters *Rebellion Era Sourcebook *Galactic Campaign Guide *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia *Star Wars: Edge of the Empire Core Rulebook *Star Wars: Age of Rebellion Core Rulebook Category:Families