42356
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Toll_Apkar
Toll Apkar
5953

Toll Apkar was a Rodian gambler who lived during the Jedi Civil War between the Galactic Republic and the Sith Empire. In 3956 BBY, they were present in the settlement of Dreshdae on the Sith world of Korriban. They spent their time playing the card game pazaak in The Drunk Side, a cantina in the settlement. Toll Apkar lived on the Outer Rim Sith-controlled planet of Korriban during the Jedi Civil War between the Galactic Republic and the Sith Empire. The Rodian resided in Dreshdae, a major colony on the planet and the location of a Sith Academy. They spent their time playing the gambling card game pazaak in The Drunk Side, a cantina located in the settlement, becoming proficient in the game. In 3956 BBY,The Essential Atlas places the events of Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic, which includes Toll Apkar's appearance and interaction with Revan, in 3956 BBY. during his search for the Star Maps, the amnesiac Sith Lord&ndash;turned&ndash;Jedi Revan arrived in Dreshdae and approached Apkar in the cantina. Apkar introduced themself and offered a game of pazaak, being upfront about their skill. Revan wanted to ask him questions, but the gambler declined, directing him to the other citizens of Dreshdae. Apkar made it clear that if Revan did not intend to play a round, they wished to be alone, but Revan agreed to play a match and won. The Rodian claimed it was simply a lucky draw and challenged Revan to more games. After being beaten several times and losing many credits, Apkar admitted that the Jedi was superior. Thoroughly defeated, the Rodian refused to play any more pazaak with Revan and sought out a less challenging pastime. thumb|left|250px|Toll Apkar was proficient at the card game of pazaak. Toll Apkar was a Rodian with copper-colored skin and black eyes. They were very proficient at pazaak and took great pride in their skill, often mentioning it to others. They viewed winning as a vindication of this skill. The Rodian was quite bored and welcomed any opportunity to play, as few citizens of Korriban enjoyed the game. However, if someone did not intend to engage in a round with them, they would prefer to be alone. Apkar knew when they were outmatched by Revan and refused to play more, knowing they would only lose credits. Apkar wore a green and teal suit with a brown harness and bronze-colored boots. They had a brown and mauve utility belt with a holster on the right and a small pouch on the left. Toll Apkar appeared as a non-player character in the 2003 video game Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic, developed by BioWare. Interactions with them are optional and do not affect any plot or quest, nor do they change alignment. If the player loses to Apkar, they will comment on their own skill and apologize to Revan. If the player wins several times in a row, Apkar will admit Revan's superiority and refuse to play more pazaak games. *Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic *Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic: Prima's Official Strategy Guide Category:Gamblers Category:Individuals of unspecified gender Category:Individuals with unspecified pronouns Category:Korriban residents Category:Rodians