42599
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Nadaa
Nadaa
6062

Nadaa was a Human female refugee who lived with her daughter, Adana, in the Refugee Sector on Nar Shaddaa, a moon of the planet Nal Hutta, in 3951 BBY. During this time, her daughter was kidnapped by the local Exchange crime boss Saquesh as Nadaa owed the Exchange 600 credits. While visiting the moon, the former Jedi Knight Meetra Surik spoke with Nadaa and agreed to help free her daughter. During her meeting with Saquesh, Surik was unsuccessful in her negotiations and killed Saquesh to free Adana. Nadaa was extremely grateful afterward. thumb|left|220px|Adana, Nadaa's daughter Near the end of the Dark Wars in 3951 BBY,Knights of the Old Republic Campaign Guide the Human female Nadaa was a refugee who lived with her daughter, Adana, in the Refugee Sector on Nar Shaddaa, the moon of Nal Hutta. During this time, Adana was kidnapped and held hostage by the Exchange crime organization overseer of the area, a Quarren male crime boss named Saquesh, due to Nadaa's unpaid tribute of 600 credits to the Exchange. Saquesh planned to sell Adana to the Hutts to pay the debt. While visiting the moon searching for Jedi Master Zez-Kai Ell, Meetra Surik, a former Jedi Knight, spoke with Nadaa. She told Surik the Exchange was holding her daughter and begged Surik to help her. Surik agreed to help Nadaa rescue Adana, and she went to meet with Saquesh. Surik attempted to intimidate Saquesh to release Adana, but Saquesh was not swayed and immediately attacked Surik. The former Jedi Knight slew the Quarren and his guards and released Adana from her cell. Surik returned to Nadaa, who thanked her profusely for her help. Nadaa loved her daughter Adana immensely and was desperate to speak to one of Saquesh's underlings to convince them to release her. When Surik agreed to help Nadaa, she was wary of the prospect of Saquesh finding her daughter again. She was exceedingly grateful when Surik was able to return Adana to her. Nadaa had blue eyes and blonde hair kept in a ponytail. Nadaa wore tan-colored robes with a brown undershirt and a pair of boots. Nadaa first appeared in the 2004 Obsidian Entertainment video game Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic II: The Sith Lords. The player can convince Nadaa to sell herself to Saquesh to be with her daughter, which results in dark side points. It is also possible for Adana to be sold into slavery if the player tells Saquesh to sell her quickly, which also results in dark side points. If this path is followed, the refugee leader Hussef will later note that Nadaa went mad and vanished. The 2008 reference book The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia states that Surik did help Nadaa while on Nar Shaddaa, confirming the light side option in the game as canonical with respect to the Star Wars Legends continuity. *Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic II: The Sith Lords *Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic II: The Sith Lords: Prima Official Game Guide Category:Females Category:Humans Category:Individuals with she/her pronouns Category:Nar Shaddaa residents Category:Refugees