42604
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Kaul_(Twi%27lek)
Kaul (Twi'lek)
4897

Kaul was a Twi'lek male infochant who lived in the Refugee Sector of the moon Nar Shaddaa in 3951 BBY. When Meetra Surik, a former Jedi Knight of the Jedi Order, visited the Refugee Sector, the Twi'lek offered her information for a few credits. Surik paid the Twi'lek for his information; he informed her that if she had a stealth field generator and some security skills, she could rob the Exchange criminal organization's compound in the area without anyone noticing. An infochant by trade, Kaul was an orange-skinned, blue-eyed male Twi'lek who lived in the Refugee Sector on Nar Shaddaa, the largest moon of the planet Nal Hutta. He had lived there for some time by 3951 BBY,Knights of the Old Republic Campaign Guide after the conclusion of the Jedi Civil War and the Mandalorian Wars. He knew much about the Exchange, a criminal organization on the moon. During that time, the Human female known as Meetra Surik, a former Jedi Knight of the Jedi Order, was on the moon searching for Jedi Master Zez-Kai Ell. While visiting the Refugee Sector, the Exile spoke with Kaul, who offered her some information in exchange for twenty credits. Surik was skeptical and wished to know the nature of the information, and Kaul replied that it would lead to some good loot. Surik agreed and paid Kaul the twenty credits, and he told her that there were containers in the Exchange camp that were filled with supplies. He suggested that if Surik used a stealth field generator and some security skills, she could steal them without the guards noticing. Kaul was very knowledgeable about the inner workings of the Exchange's criminal dealings on Nar Shaddaa and had information on where the group kept its supplies within its compound in the Refugee Sector. He did not have the skills necessary to take advantage of the information himself; if he had, he would have left Nar Shaddaa, where he felt he was "stuck." Kaul spoke Twi'leki and was capable of understanding Basic. Kaul's first appearance in canon is as a non-player character in the 2004 video game Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic II: The Sith Lords, in which the player, the Jedi Exile, can interact with him. The player can choose to either pay for his information or not. While the information he gives the player is correct, speaking with him is not required to continue the game's plot or to steal from the aforementioned containers. Therefore, it is undetermined whether the Jedi Exile ever interacted with Kaul and, if so, what form their conversation took, and whether she paid for his information or not. *Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic II: The Sith Lords *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Males Category:Nar Shaddaa residents Category:Twi'leks