42785
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Onoh
Onoh
6063

Onoh was a male Lizling who served Gardulla Besadii the Elder during the last decades of the Galactic Republic, and later as the watchman of Jabba Desilijic Tiure's private storehouse in Glass Mountain. He was kidnapped by Gizman and Spiker when they stole the Spirit of Jabba after the Hutt's death, and associated with them as a reluctant pirate. thumb|left|250px|Onoh (right) and [[Gardulla Besadii the Elder/Legends|Gardulla]] Onoh worked as the servant of Gardulla Besadii the Elder on Tatooine, and greeted Jabba Desilijic Tiure to Gardulla's lodge prior to the Boonta Eve Classic in 32 BBY. The Hutts wagered on which Podracer would win the event, and shared a worried glance with his mistress as Jabba took Gardulla's bet and departed. Onoh worked for some years as a watchman for Jabba Desilijic Tiure at the Hutt's secret hangar in Glass Mountain on Tatooine, containing the Spirit of Jabba and eight priceless Mendacian funeral urns from the Krung Dynasty. He received annual payments from the Hutt, and lived in a hovel at the mountain. Following Jabba's death, Onoh was menaced by several thugs dispatched by Gorga Desilijic Aarrpo looking to gain access to Jabba's storehouse, and tortured the watchman with dune biters into giving up the secret entranceway. Gorga ordered Onoh killed, but the arrival of Big Gizz and Spiker spared him. The two mercenaries confirmed Jabba's death, and hijacked the Spirit of Jabba along with Onoh, recruiting him as a pirate. They soon encountered the Jabba Tape while attempting to escape from Gorga, and the interactive security tape took control of the ship. However, they were shot down by the escort freighter Nemphas, and Onoh keyed in the operating code he'd memorized, betraying Jabba but allowing his new companions to assume control of the ship. Swooping over Gorga's private strip in Mos Eisley, Onoh helped Spiker jettison the ship's cargo onto Gorga and his associates. After a pursuit, the pirates crashed and made their way through the desert. Some time later, the trio were camped near the Mos Espa Grand Arena, which had fallen into disrepair, when a runaway Jawa sandcrawler came out of nowhere and destroyed Gizz's bike. As the only member of the gang who understood the Jawa language, Onoh communicated with the sole survivor of the accident, Klepti B'ay, who explained that his clan had been wiped out by a terrifying battle droid they had mistakenly salvaged and reactivated. An Imperial dark trooper droid emerged from the wreckage of the sandcrawler and attacked the gang. After Gizz and Spiker threw everything they had at the deadly machine to slow it down, Klepti and Onoh finished it off by dropping a large boulder on top of it from a ledge. Now augmented by Klepti, who proclaimed that he owed a life debt to Gizz, the gang left the scene. A Lizling, Onoh had scaly yellow skin and large, bulbous eyes. Two long barbels hung from his chin, and he possessed a thin tail and claws on his hands and toes. He typically wore a ragged brown tunic and a blue hood. Onoh was loyal to Jabba, though displayed cowardly traits and gave up the secret of Glass Mountain under the threat of torture from dune biters. He spoke both Galactic Basic Standard and Huttese. *"Podracing Tales" *Boba Fett: Enemy of the Empire 3 *"The Jabba Tape" *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Besadii servants Category:Desilijic servants Category:Guards Category:Lizlings Category:Males Category:Tatooinians