42841
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Volven_Roxe
Volven Roxe
7136

Volven Roxe, also known as "the wolfman," was a Shistavanen male who operated as a spice lord and crime kingpin on the planet Coruscant. He was the owner of several nightclubs in Coruscant's Uscru Entertainment District, one of which was the Outlander Club. Roxe was a rival of the fellow club owners Beuga Odell and Quetemoor the Sub-Elder and an addict of the drug Drovian zwil. thumb|350px|right|Volven Roxe owned the Outlander Club (pictured). Volven Roxe, also referred to as "the wolfman," was a Shistavanen male crime kingpin local to the planet Coruscant, where he was the world's top spice lord. He was the owner of the Outlander Club, a nightclub and gambling hall located in the Uscru Entertainment District of Coruscant. Though the Outlander's proprietors were a secretive band of Columi and the club was managed by the dangerous Baath brothers, Roxe was the true owner of the club. Roxe also owned several other nightclubs near the Outlander, through which he competed for control of the entertainment district with his rivals: club owners Beuga Odell and Quetemoor the Sub-Elder, and Coruscant's undercity Hutt bosses. Similarly to his rivals, Roxe made most of the profit from the Outlander Club though illegal substances sold by gorgeous clubgoers on the Shistavanen's payroll. Unlike other crime lords, however, he kept his reach restricted to import and sale of the drugs andris, ryll, glitterstim, and lumni-spice. At some point, Roxe placed a bounty on a woman known superstitiously to him as "the Sith." The woman was, in actuality, former Jedi Lexia Ginorra, who led a bloody crusade against crime. At another point, Roxe had hired the bounty hunter Anniha Nega, who was active in the last decades of the Galactic Republic. Roxe, a preening, narcissistic, and xenophobic man, exhibited red and black striped hair, a trait unusual for a member of the Shistavanen species. Should a group have caused a scene at the Outlander, they could have possibly found themselves dragged to Roxe to receive personal chastisement. The man's owning of several clubs made him a target for rival gangsters who occasionally sought to put him in his place. Beuga Odell would have dearly loved to destroy Roxe's criminal organization but refrained from doing so as to not trigger a gang war. Roxe rarely appeared in public and made a point to not try out the drugs he trafficked, though he was addicted to a drug unrelated to his work, Drovian zwil. The Shistavanen could speak in the Shistavanen, Basic, Huttese, and Mugaar languages. He could also read and write in Shistavanen. The crime kingpin was proficient in the usage of blaster pistols and simple weapons and was knowledgeable on Coruscant and business. Skills possessed by Roxe included bluffing, escape artistry, gathering information, appraisal, hiding, and sleight of hand. A scoundrel, Roxe had improved initiative, mobility and dodging ability, and alertness. Roxe used a heavy blaster pistol, a comlink, and an engraved zwil container. thumb|right|200px|Volven Roxe was introduced in Coruscant and the Core Worlds. Volven Roxe was first mentioned in Coruscant and the Core Worlds, a 2003 sourcebook for the Star Wars Roleplaying Game published by Wizards of the Coast. In the adventure scenario "Troglodyte Terror," the heroes playing trace the missing Veritas Press employee Elbee Bribb to Roxe's crime den in the worst part of the Coruscant undercity. If a player is discreet, they may learn that Bribb had been taken, and that he had sold the Shistavanen an unpublished exposé of Coruscant's spice trade. Players may be able to get Roxe to aide them in wiping out Bribb's kidnappers, the mutated subterranean scavengers known as Cthons, if they convince him that they are a threat to his turf. When writing for the character Magaloof through the StarWars.com Hyperspace feature What's The Story?, author Gregory Walker originally wrote that Magaloof aspired to join Roxe, though this was changed to the criminal organization Black Sun in the editing process. *Coruscant and the Core Worlds Category:Business owners and executives Category:Criminals Category:Individuals with he/him pronouns Category:Males Category:Shistavanens