43124
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Eban_Trey
Eban Trey
5039

Eban Trey was a Rodian who was the host of the grand opening of the Aerie Casino on the planet Naboo in 1 ABY. He announced the upcoming opening event, a competition between trained exotic animals held at an arena near the casino, and also proclaimed that the first one hundred attendees who entered the casino after its subsequent official opening would be rewarded with one hundred credits, an announcement that the audience received with great enthusiasm. thumb|right|250px|The bioengineer Dusque Mistflier was not surprised at the announcer Eban Trey being a Rodian. Eban Trey was a Rodian who carried out the duties of a host at the grand opening of the Aerie Casino on the Mid Rim planet Naboo in 1 ABY.The Essential Reader's Companion dates the events of Star Wars Galaxies: The Ruins of Dantooine to 1 ABY. At an arena set up near the casino, the opening event of that night's program was scheduled to be a combat competition between trained exotic animals, and Trey entered the center of the arena in order to announce the event. As he was doing so, the Ithorian bioengineer Tendau Nandon, who was attending the opening event along with his colleague, the Human Dusque Mistflier, pointed at Trey while noting to her that the event was about to begin. Upon noticing that the announcer was a Rodian, Mistflier was not surprised due to a significant number of members of his species having a reputation for being highly accomplished dramatists. Clearing his throat, Trey then addressed the audience, welcoming them to the festivities and declaring the Aerie Casino to be the "finest gambling establishment of the Mid Rim." The Rodian briefly described the upcoming competition and finally announced that after the contest's end the casino would be officially opened, with one hundred credits being given out to the first one hundred attendees to enter the establishment. The audience reacted wildly to the announcement, and Trey bowed and dashed out of the arena, after which the competing animals of the contest were led on a parade through the arena by their trainers and handlers Eban Trey had a slight build and green skin. In Dusque Mistflier's view, Eban Trey was a master of timing. In his speech during the opening ceremony of the Aerie Casino, he utilized dramatic gestures. Eban Trey wore a garish robe with a cloak to which a small audio transmitter was attached for the purpose of enhancing the volume of his speech. Eban Trey appeared in Voronica Whitney-Robinson and Haden Blackman's 2003 novel Star Wars Galaxies: The Ruins of Dantooine. In the book's acknowledgements, Whitney-Robinson thanked a Rodian character also named "Eban Trey." *Star Wars Galaxies: The Ruins of Dantooine Category:Individuals of unspecified gender Category:Individuals with he/him pronouns Category:Rodians