43521
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Jastus_Farr
Jastus Farr
10481

Jastus Farr was an alien male Jedi Master who served as a Jedi General during the Clone Wars. Farr survived the initial stages of Order 66, Galactic Republic Supreme Chancellor Palpatine's order to all clone troopers to murder their Jedi Generals. In 19 BBY, Farr met with Jedi Masters Koffi Arana, Tsui Choi, Roblio Darté, Ma'kis'shaalas, and Shadday Potkin, as well as Jedi Knights Bultar Swan and Sia-Lan Wezz, in an abandoned spice mine on the world of Kessel. However, the Dark Lord Darth Vader arrived, and Farr and his fellow Jedi engaged the Sith in lightsaber combat. After Wezz, Ma'kis'shaalas, Potkin, Swan, and Arana were killed, Farr, Choi, and Darté combined their efforts in an attempt to eliminate Vader. However, as they prepared to end the Sith Lord's life, stormtroopers of the 501st Legion entered the mine and opened fire with their blasters, killing Farr. Choi and Darté were subsequently killed by Vader and the stormtroopers shortly after Farr's death. The alien male Jedi Master Jastus Farr served the Galactic Republic as a Jedi General during the Clone Wars. In 19 BBY, the Supreme Chancellor Palpatine issued Order 66, which commanded the clone troopers of the Republic Army to eliminate the Jedi Knights. Farr survived the beginning stages of the Great Jedi Purge, as the now-Emperor Palpatine transformed the Republic into the first Galactic Empire. thumb|left|150px|Jastus Farr uses his lightsaber to injure Darth Vader during the Ambush on Kessel. A month after the execution of Order 66, Farr made his way to the mining planet Kessel. There, he met with Jedi Masters Koffi Arana, Tsui Choi, Roblio Darté, Ma'kis'shaalas, and Shadday Potkin, and Jedi Knights Bultar Swan and Sia-Lan Wezz, in an abandoned spice mine. After the Jedi discussed the rise of the Empire and the betrayal of the Sith, Potkin revealed to the Jedi that she had leaked false intelligence that the Jedi Master Obi-Wan Kenobi would be attending the meeting and added that the Dark Lord Darth Vader was coming to the meeting in hopes of finding Kenobi. As Farr and the Jedi prepared for battle, Vader stormed the room and demanded to know where Kenobi was. Farr and the Jedi engaged Vader in combat. During the fight, Farr injured Vader by slashing the back of the Sith's armor with his double-bladed lightsaber. Vader retreated and killed Potkin, stealing her cortosis blade. After Vader used the blade to deactivate Farr's, Darté's, and Arana's lightsabers, Choi sliced off Vader's sword arm while Swan slashed his left leg. As Vader feigned surrender, Swan and Arana argued about whether or not to kill the Sith. Arana killed Swan so he could use her lightsaber to execute Vader, but the Sith Lord then killed Arana. Vader offered Farr, Choi, and Darté one final chance to tell him where Kenobi was. When the three Jedi refused, Farr combined his Force powers with Choi and Darté's, throwing debris against Vader. After critically wounding the Dark Lord, Choi prepared to kill Vader. Before he could do so, however, stormtroopers of the 501st Legion entered the mine via the catwalks and opened fire on the three Jedi. Their blaster fire killed Farr, and Vader and the stormtroopers killed Choi and Darté. thumb|right|150px|Farr is cut down by stormtrooper fire. Jastus Farr was a large male who had blue fur and skin. He owned and used a double-bladed lightsaber, which contained a green crystal. During the Clone Wars, Farr defended the Republic as a Jedi General. When Chancellor Palpatine issued Order 66, Farr evaded the clone troopers and subsequently avoided the forces of the Galactic Empire. During his meeting with the other Jedi on Kessel, Farr reminded them that the Jedi Masters stated that the dark side inevitably corrupted the good an individual strove to achieve, and he openly questioned the truth of this belief. After Vader had defeated five of the Jedi, Farr&mdash;along with Masters Choi and Darté&mdash;refused to tell the Dark Lord where Obi-Wan Kenobi was, even though he knew this would lead to Vader attempting to kill him. Farr was skilled in the use of a lightsaber. When he and his fellow Jedi battled Vader, Farr injured the Dark Lord with his lightsaber. He was also talented in telekinetic Force powers, combining his efforts with Tsui Choi and Roblio Darté to throw debris at Vader. Jastus Farr was introduced in the 2005 standalone comic Star Wars: Purge, written by John Ostrander and drawn by Douglas Wheatley. Farr is similar in appearance to the Jedi brutes in the video game adaptation of the film Star Wars: Episode III Revenge of the Sith.Star Wars: Episode III Revenge of the Sith video game Star Wars: Purge dates its events, including Farr's death, at one month after the events of Revenge of the Sith, which takes place midway through 19 BBY, as established in 2005's The New Essential Chronology.The New Essential Chronology Despite this, Keeper of the Holocron continuity database Leland Chee stated in a 2006 blog entry that the comic's events take place in 18 BBY. Several other dates given in the blog entry are incorrect, and as such, this article treats the 19 BBY date as canonical. *Purge *Star Wars: The Ultimate Visual Guide *Star Wars: The Ultimate Visual Guide: Special Edition *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Individuals of unidentified species Category:Jedi Generals Category:Jedi Purge victims Category:Males Category:Post-Ruusan Jedi Masters