43655
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Hive_virus
Hive virus
3922

Hive viruses were highly contagious viruses. Prior to the Clone Wars, the virus was fairly common. They were characterized by a dormancy period followed by mass activation, mediated by unknown means. The Jurrinex6 strain was intentionally designed by biological terrorists. After the Clone Wars, medical technology flourished, and this type of virus was virtually wiped out from the galaxy. One of the most virulent strains of hive virus attacked the mental centers of the brain, altering perceptions. Individuals were driven mad in a relatively short time. This strain caused the loss of the Katana fleet. Part of the crew picked up a hive virus at one of their ports of call on their maiden voyage, and the virus quickly spread among the entire fleet while dormant. When it became active, all the crew were struck at once. The crew of the command ship survived long enough to slave the ships together and jump to hyperspace along with the Katana Fleet. Zeta Magnus, the mutant genetic terrorist behind the Katana fleet outbreak, unleashed a hive virus at the Okonomo Retreat on Alderaan. The Royal Pavilion on Okonomo Island hosted an annual social event known as the Grand Alderaanian Gathering. This event attracted a number of noblemen, intellectuals, and scientists. Hoping to kill one of his Arkanian creators who was attending the event, Zeta Magnus unleashed a hive virus that caused all the attendees to devour each other. An incurable strain of hive virus was deployed on the planet Firrerre by the Galactic Empire's elite Starcrash Brigade under orders from the Procurator of Justice Hethrir. The virus quickly wiped out all life on the planet in the space of a few days by eating through the bodies of its victims while they were still alive. To prevent the virus from spreading offworld, the planet was quarantined. Hethrir himself was a Firrerreo who had ordered this atrocity to prove his unquestionable loyalty to the humanocentric Imperial leadership. *Star Wars: The Old Republic: Rise of the Hutt Cartel *Outbound Flight *SkyeWalkers: A Clone Wars Story *Dark Force Rising *The Crystal Star *Dark Force Rising Sourcebook *Dark Empire Sourcebook *Star Wars Gamemaster Handbook *The Last Command Sourcebook *Creatures of the Galaxy *Platt's Starport Guide *The Essential Guide to Vehicles and Vessels *The Thrawn Trilogy Sourcebook *Star Wars: The Roleplaying Game, Second Edition, Revised and Expanded *Shadows of the Empire Planets Guide *Cynabar's Fantastic Technology: Droids *The Essential Guide to Planets and Moons *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia *The Essential Guide to Warfare Category:Viruses