44079
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/OOL-2
OOL-2
5755

|mass= |gender= |pronouns= |sensor= |plating= |armament= |equipment=E-5 blaster rifle |affiliation=Trade Federation }} OOL-2 was a B1-series battle droid who served in the Trade Federation Droid Army. Sometime between 39 and 36 BBY, OOL-2 was deployed to the moon Alaris Prime, which the Trade Federation was trying to colonize.There, OOL-2 found a power core that had been damaged by the moon's gundarks and later completely destroyed by Wookiees from the planet Kashyyyk. OOL-2 reported the loss of the power core to the Trade Federation's leader, Nute Gunray, who ordered him to find the gundarks he believed were responsible and kill them. OOL-2 was a B1-series battle droid that served in the Trade Federation Droid Army. Between 39 BBY and 36 BBY,The New Essential Chronology places the Alaris Prime colonial war between 39 BBY and 36 BBY. OOL-2 was sent to Alaris Prime, a moon recently discovered by Wookiees from the planet Kashyyyk. The Trade Federation wanted to colonize the moon, but consent to do so had been given to the Wookiees who had found it by the Galactic Senate. Nevertheless, OOL-2 arrived on the moon with a large contingent of the droid army sometime before the Wookiees landed on Alaris Prime. thumb|left|2500px|OOL-2 at the power core's ruins While OOL-2 was on Alaris Prime, two Wookiees, Chewbacca and Shoran, landed on the moon and destroyed one of the Trade Federation's power cores that had already suffered heavy damage after being attacked by gundarks, the main predator on Alaris Prime. The Trade Federation noticed the damage to the power core and sent OOL-2 to find it. OOL-2 found its ruins and reported its destruction to the Trade Federation's leader, Nute Gunray, incorrectly informing him that gundarks had destroyed the power core. Gunray ordered OOL-2 to find the gundarks that he believed were responsible, kill them, and then sell their pelts to the Trade Federation's Trandoshan allies. The Trade Federation later attacked the gundark nest and eliminated the creatures from Alaris Prime but were eventually driven off the world by the Wookiees. As a B1 battle droid, OOL-2 stood at 1.91 meters tall. The droid received orders directly from Nute Gunray. OOL-2 wielded an E-5 blaster rifle. OOL-2 first appeared in the 2001 LucasArts video game Star Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds, voiced by Michael Gough. OOL-2 only appears at the end of the level "Moving and Attacking," the first level in the Wookiee training campaign, wherein he investigates a power core destroyed by the player using Chewbacca and Shoran earlier in the mission. If the player clicks on OOL-2, the droid is only named as a normal Trade Federation trooper, with his name only given in dialogue with Nute Gunray. *Star Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds *Star Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds: Clone Campaigns Category:B1-series battle droids Category:Droids of the Trade Federation Category:Droids with unspecified gender programming Category:Droids with unspecified pronouns