44030
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Reticul
Reticul
3452

Reticul was a city on the Galactic Empire's terraformed asteroid of Hanoon, which had been constructed in 6 ABY.The Essential Atlas places the Battle of Hanoon in 6 ABY. The city's inhabitants held a shard of an ancient Jedi artifact, the Vor'Na'Tu. The city, located next to one of the asteroid's canals, was comprised of a Command center, several prefab shelters, and an animal nursery, the city was dominated by the Galactic Empire. Three turrets encircled the town. That year, the future founder of the New Jedi Order, Luke Skywalker, and his sister Leia Organa ventured to Hanoon to retrieve the shards, leading a small New Republic army. Skywalker and Organa went to Reticul first to recover the shard. The town was not willing to help unless the turrets were destroyed, so the Republic forces deployed their Blaster Cannon to eliminate the turrets. Reticul then gratefully gave up their shard and provided three R2-D5 labor droids so the Republic forces could establish a base and continue their mission. Later, Organa and Skywalker decided to free the rest of the asteroid and took control of the Terraform Processor. With the demise of Moff Yittreas, Hanoon agreed to join the New Republic. Reticul was first mentioned in the strategy guide to the 2001 video game Star Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds. It appeared during a Princess Leia campaign mission. The mission's tasks may be completed in any order and in a variety of ways. This article assumes the player visited Reticul first, as it is the closest city and that the Blaster Cannon was employed against the turrets. The game's strategy guide recommends that strategy. The mission and thus Reticul was also included in the game's 2002 expansion pack, Clone Campaigns. *Star Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds *Star Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds: Clone Campaigns *Star Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds: Prima's Official Strategy Guide Category:Cities on Hanoon Category:Galactic Empire cities Category:New Republic cities