44199
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Raid_on_Sullust
Raid on Sullust
4827

The Raid on Sullust was an operation carried out by Rogue Squadron, engineered by Imperial defector Kasan Moor to disable an Imperial station situated inside an active volcano known as the Capacitor. Rogue Squadron battled TIE Interceptors, turbolasers, missile turrets, and AT-STs in the fight. The installation was protected by an elaborate shield transmitter system which projected a shield that enveloped the Capacitor entirely, forcing Rogue Squadron to destroy the transmitter network first. It was a victory for the Alliance, but it was all a trick: while they were fighting here, Moff Kohl Seerdon attacked bacta supplies on Thyferra. After Imperial Moff Kohl Seerdon blockaded the Rebel Alliance-affiliated world Chandrila, the Rebel flight group was sent to Sullust to attack the Capacitor at a hidden Imperial base. Kasan Moor engineered the strike.Star Wars: Rogue Squadron: The Official Nintendo Player's Guide thumb|right|250px|The Capacitor is destroyed. The Capacitor was surrounded by a deflector shield. Rogue Squadron, battling the base's defenses, managed to destroy the twelve shield transmitters spread throughout the area that were producing the shield. After the shield was disabled, Rogue Squadron targeted the support columns on the Capacitor. When they were destroyed, the structure split into two and crashed into the lava. During the attack, Rogue Squadron targeted and destroyed a bunker in close proximity to both a transmitter and a TIE landing pad, uncovering another set of seeker proton torpedoes. Although a success, the raid was nothing but a ruse set up by Moff Seerdon himself to draw Rogue Squadron away as he attacked Rebel bacta supplies on Thyferra. The Raid on Sullust appears in the 1998 video game Star Wars: Rogue Squadron. Seeker proton torpedoes are the mission's upgrade. *Star Wars: Rogue Squadron *Star Wars: Rogue Squadron: The Official Nintendo Player's Guide *Strongholds of Resistance Category:Battles of Sullust Category:Battles of the Seerdon Campaign