44265
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Kar_Yang
Kar Yang
7628

Kar Yang was a male Hiitian, considered to be the second-most skilled and feared bounty hunter in the galaxy. He was often accompanied by Lintu, his assistant droid. He came to prominence after the Battle of Endor and hunted Guri. A male member of the Hiitian species, Kar Yang was the galaxy's second-most talented and renowned bounty hunter by 4 ABY. Possessed of greater skill as a gunslinger than the Chadra-Fan Tutti Snibit, the legendary Yang nonetheless relied upon his fellow hunter as a source of information on multiple occasions. Yang was hired by the Falleen antiques dealer Azool to capture the Human replica droid Guri, who carried sensitive information on Black Sun that could grant control of the syndicate to their possessor. Azool was in reality Savan, the niece of the Black Sun crime syndicate's deceased Underlord Prince Xizor. Savan provided the hunter with information on Guri's whereabouts provided by the Rodian Prevaro. Savan covertly observed Yang through his personal droid Lintu. Aboard his starship, the Hiitian tracked his quarry to the site of her destruction of an Imperial II-class Star Destroyer of the Imperial Navy. Impressed, he continued on the trail of Guri, who had next visited a cantina on Hurd's Moon to enlist its proprietor, her creator Massad Thrumble, in removing her programming as an assassin. Yang tracked down Thrumble, who initially refused to betray Guri's location, setting the cantina's other occupants against the hunter when threatened. Dispatching his attackers, Yang persuaded Thrumble to reveal her presence on the sparsely populated planet Murninkam, home to rogue scientist Spinda Caveel. On his way there, he reported his progress to Azool. Fighting his way through Caveel's robotic picket ship defenses and evading his subordinates the Pikkel Sisters, Yang observed from a distance as Guri infiltrated the the scientist's fortressShadows of the Empire: Evolution 2 and retrieved A-OIC, a specialized medical stolen from Thrumble by Caveel. Just before Guri left the planet, Yang tagged her starship, the Stinger, with a homing device. Having successfully located Guri, he explained to Lintu that he had no intention of returning her to his employer. Guri was much more valuable than the bounty he had been offered. Yang planned to keep Guri for his own purposes. Lintu waited until he believed Yang had gone to sleep, then reported back to Savan via comm. But Yang had grown suspicious of his droid and overheard the conversation. Yang and Lintu tracked the Stinger to Hurd's Moon. After touching down, Yang sent the droid ahead to scout and shot him in the back. At last, Yang came upon his quarry in Thrumble's hidden laboratory deep within Hurd's Moon. Guri had been prepared for a deep neural modification, though Yang forced her up from the operating table at gunpoint. In Yang's brief custody, he forced Guri to tie up Thrumble, and then led her to the lab exit. Guri managed to knock the blaster from Yang's grip, and the two engaged in hand-to-hand combat. Yang was able to recover his blaster from the floor and took a shot at Guri, though only grazed her leg. Once again, Yang had his quarry at gunpoint, though did not fire as he wanted her alive. Guri took advantage of his hesitance and punched him in the chest, tearing his heart out with her bare hand. The droid A-OIC dragged Yang's bloodied carcass away while Thrumble and Guri were forced to recalibrate the medical instruments thanks to Yang's interruption. Kar Yang first appeared in the initial issue of the comic book series Shadows of the Empire: Evolution, written by Steve Perry, illustrated by Ron Randall, and published by Dark Horse Comics on February 11th, 1998. *Shadows of the Empire: Evolution 1 *Shadows of the Empire: Evolution 2 *Shadows of the Empire: Evolution 3 *Shadows of the Empire: Evolution 4 *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Bounty hunters Category:Hiitians Category:Males