44576
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Bodie_Taylor
Bodie Taylor
5492

(Article states that it was originally written/published September 8, 2003, this is a repost from 2017). |occupation=*Actor *Tour guide |companies= |website= }} (Archived episode of The Tem Show. Bodie Taylor is featured in parts three, four and five).}} Bodie Tihoi Huitoroa-Taylor, also known as Bodie Wheke Taylor (born 1976), is a Māori actor from New Zealand who portrayed the clones of Jango Fett when they were age-equivalent to his twenties during Star Wars: Episode II Attack of the Clones. He also portrayed an unhelmeted 212th Attack Battalion clone trooper in Star Wars: Episode III Revenge of the Sith. Much like the other unhelmeted clones portrayed by Temuera Morrison, Bodie wore a blue bodysuit which was later digitally replaced with computer-generated clone armor. thumb|left|250px|Taylor as a Clone cadet Before Star Wars: Episode II Attack of the Clones, Bodie Taylor had never acted on-screen. Prior to his role in Star Wars, Bodie took part in a Māori cultural kapa haka stage production called Ahorangi 2000. While performing in Hamilton, New Zealand, he and his co-performer, 11 year old Tupoutahi Winitana (the main protagonist of the production, and the son of the production's director/producer), were approached by Temuera Morrison and a casting director for Lucasfilm to audition as younger versions of the clones. During their auditions, they were recorded and photographed posing menacingly with traditional Māori weapons, such as taiaha, and showing off the Māori martial art of Mau rākau. After the audition, they were both told that they had been selected to be in Attack of the Clones. Due to the filming schedule of Attack of the Clones conflicting with Ahorangi 2000 tour dates, Winitana's parents turned down his role in the film, with his role eventually being given to Daniel Logan instead. Taylor, however, was free to leave the production, as his role wasn't as prominent. After his time in Star Wars, Taylor picked up a few film and television roles in New Zealand productions, one being the Māori Television show Bro-tour.com where he and his friend Mike Jonathan traveled the world and met with some of the prominent Māori figures living abroad, such as Rena Owen. Category:Star Wars: Episode II Attack of the Clones actors Category:Star Wars: Episode III Revenge of the Sith actors