44796
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/SD-10_battle_droid
SD-10 battle droid
5259

The SD-10 battle droid was part of the SD-series of Balmorran Arms battle droids. Like preceding models in the series, the SD-10 was a humanoid fighting droid significantly larger than a human. The model was designed by Umak Leth. Stronger and more intelligent that its predecessors, particularly the SD-9-series battle droid, the SD-10 was equipped with experimental self-healing metals, fast-reaction servomotors, and point-of-impact shielding. The SD-10's forearms mounted a miniature concussion missile launcher, a heavy repeating blaster, and a plasma cannon. The SD-10 also featured an advanced combat sensor package. thumb|left|SD-10 battle droids alongside [[Balmorra/Legends|Balmorra soldiers during the Battle of Balmorra]] Created in 10 ABY during the reborn Emperor Palpatine's campaign, the SD-10 was manufactured in the vast droid foundries of Balmorra. Resentful of the Imperial presence, Governor Hinch Beltane had his engineers, technicians, and designers fit the SD-10s with fast-reaction servos, point-of-impact shield generators, and experimental self-healing metals. Their databanks also contained the tactics programmed into the SD-9s along with foolproof methods of defeating those tactics. Following the Emperor's second death at the Battle of Pinnacle Base, the Balmorrans rebelled. In response, the Emperor's Military Executor, Sedriss QL, moved to crush the revolt. Unwilling to resort to planetary bombardment, Sedriss landed ground forces, launching the Battle of Balmorra. During the battle, the SD-10s were deployed straight from the assembly lines and bested the SD-9s used by the Imperials. However, they were no match for the new Imperial Shadow Droids. The Balmorrans then deployed their new X-1 Vipers, whose battle performance impressed the Executor enough for a truce to be called between the two warring factions. *Dark Empire II 1 *The New Jedi Order: Force Heretic I: Remnant *The Essential Guide to Planets and Moons *The Essential Guide to Droids *The New Essential Guide to Characters *Arms & Equipment Guide *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia *Scavenger's Guide to Droids Category:Droid models of the Galactic Empire SD-10