45113
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Mark_III_Merr-Sonn_Defender_Ion_Mine
Mark III Merr-Sonn Defender Ion Mine
4801

The Mark III Merr-Sonn Defender Ion Mine, also known simply as the Defender ion mine,was an automated space mine manufactured by Merr-Sonn Munitions, Inc. and used by the Galactic Empire. Manufactured by Merr-Sonn, Defender ion mines were deployed into the orbits of planets that the Galactic Empire wanted to blockade. Cloaking revvers and particle-beam scatter projectors worked to keep the mine invisible to starship sensors. A cluster of sensor rods enabled a Defender to detect nearby objects, though the mine would ignore anything less than four meters in diameter. When a ship came within 10 kilometers, the mine would use its ion cannon to disable the vessel. After the target was incapacitated, the mine would send a transmission to its control station. A nearby customs vessel or other capital ship would then come to investigate. Defenders were nearly undetectable due to their small size and sensor countermeasures, making minefields containing Defender mines difficult to clear. Defenders were also used by the New Republic, the Imperial Remnant, and planetary governments. During the Galactic Civil War, the Empire blockaded the mining world of Berason with Defenders due to its political stance. A low tech world, it relied on trade for food and medical supplies. As the blockade went on, the people of Berason began to become ill, weakening their resolve to stand against the Empire. General Airen Cracken led a relief mission to get supplies to the planet, which meant getting through the mine field. Using vacc-suits and jetpacks, Cracken deployed men to clear a path through the Defenders large enough for the convoy. When Moff Kentor Sarne fled into the Kathol sector after being ousted from his capital, he stopped at the planet Shintel to take on supplies and personnel. When Sarne left, he stranded the remaining forces on the planet by destroying their hyperspace capable ships and droids, and seeding Defender ion mines in orbit. A portion of the minefield was eventually cleared by the New Republic CR90 corvette FarStar. *Cracken's Rebel Field Guide *The Essential Guide to Weapons and Technology *The New Essential Guide to Weapons and Technology Category:Ion weaponry Category:Merr-Sonn Munitions, Inc. products Category:Space mines