45336
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Drake_Paulsen
Drake Paulsen
9279

|birth=18 BBY, SocorroBoth Drake Paulsen's birthplace of Socorro and age of 15 is provided in "Out of the Cradle" which is set in 3 BBY according to The Essential Reader's Companion giving a birth year of 18 BBY via simple mathematics. |death= |species=Human |gender=Male |pronouns=He/him |height= |mass= |hair=Brown |feathers= |eyes=Blue |skin=Tanned |cyber= |families= |parents=*Kaine Paulsen *A mother |partners= |siblings= |children= |affiliation= |masters=Kaine Paulsen |apprentices= }} Drake Paulsen was a Human male native of the planet Socorro and the son of the legendary pirate Kaine Paulsen. Drake was himself a pirate and smuggler, which he had been doing since his father brought him along on a smuggling run at the age of five. He was Force-sensitive, but untrained in any way of the Force. He had brown hair, a deeply tanned skin, and blue eyes, and wore a large golden earring. thumb|right|200px|Kaine Paulsen, Drake Paulsen's father The Human male Drake Paulsen was born around 18 BBY on the planet of Socorro to his father, the pirate Kaine Paulsen, and a mother. Drake spent the first few minutes of his life in the hands of Kaine's friend and Coynite warrior Tra'Parr'Sratt, who repeatedly said "Lom," the Coynite word for freedom, upon first seeing him. It was rumored that Drake's first deal was at age three with the Hutt crime lord Jabba Desilijic Tiure, with whom he traded three blaster packs for a basket full of Rishi honeystix. Jabba, impressed that the kid was fluent in Huttese and immensely entertained, dubbed the boy "the Little Prince of Socorro."The Black Sands of Socorro At some point during his childhood, Drake's mother had passed away, and by the age of five he began smuggling with his father. In 3 BBY,The Essential Reader's Companion dates the events of Out of the Cradle to 3 BBY. Drake, a fifteen-year-old, got a speeder bike ride from a nomad fugitive on his homeworld. The young boy, dropped off by a dune near the Rym mountain range, was thanked by the nomad for his company before he stepped away from the bike and thanked the nomad for the ride. As he did so, he scurried up the dune, pulling away a sand-saturated rag from his face and getting refreshed by Socorro's cool air. The nomad then told Drake about approaching bounty hunters before he left into the flatlands. The boy continued to make his way up the dune, exhaustedly throwing himself against before turning to catch a glimpse of the nomad's leaving shadow. A sighing Drake leaned over the dune and overheard the whine of the approaching hunters speeder bikes. The boy confidently waved at the bounty hunters and smiled when they paused at him. Drake momentarily thought the hunters might come after him and instinctively thumbed the restraint from his sporting blaster, though, to the hunters, there was nothing to be gained from the boy. When the hunters moved onto the Doaba Badlands, Drake sighed and pushed his goggles back against his hair and absently messed with his earring as his eyes struggled against Socorro's sun. He then tugged the leather cord around his neck and pulled himself up from the sand, stiffening himself up and pulling himself up to the top of a ridge. thumb|left|200px|Paulsen struggled to look at Toob Ancher (pictured). The Socorran came across Soco-Jarel Spaceport, and underneath himself he could he the various goings-on in the port, albeit muffled. Drake continued to carefully navigate the unsteady ridge and paused while he did to thrust his hands into his pockets and catch a final glimpse at the moving storm clouds. Toob Ancher, an associate of Drake's father, called out for Kaine, pulling him out of reverie. The boy continued down the ridge and slid down the final slope, keeping the sun just over his right shoulder, an old superstition for good luck. Drake replied to the man that it was just him, and Ancher told the Socorran that he heard rumors of his father coming back, and that it seemed that the boy was running light on arms. Looking at Ancher's face, damaged by an explosion, Drake was horrified, though he disguised it with embarrassment. The Socorran mentally recalled the explosion, which left a would-be bounty hunter and six others dead. Drake then confessed that his father did not think he was not ready for a heavy blaster while staring away from Ancher's face. The man told the boy that the galaxy was no-longer a safe place and continued with a saying that Drake finished for him. Ancher then noticed the Socorran's bag of childhood mementos and smiled looking at them. The man continued that was going away to Vedis IV and Drake to look for him if he and his father ever needed a place. After telling the man he'd tell his father, Ancher told him to remember where he came from, as it was the one thing that could not be taken from him. As Ancher brushed past the boy into the spaceport's docking bay he watched the man's back and understood that he was going offworld to die. Feeling pity, the boy watched Ancher's ship, the Glory, leave Socorro's atmosphere while he untangled his earring from his hair. Drake then silently moved into the spaceport to go to Black Dust Tavern. thumb|right|220px|Drake Paulsen with Taggert and Coynite Tra'Parr'Sratt. Shortly after, the Socorran Twi'lek crimelord Abdi-Badawzi forced Drake into accompanying the alcoholic Corellian smuggler Elias Halbert and Tra'Pra'Sratt on a gunrun aboard the Seldom Different. They were intercepted by an Imperial customs force led by Lieutenant Taggert. While managing to hide the cargo, Drake was fired upon and injured by one of the stormtroopers that made up the boarding party, as he tried to prevent Taggert from executing Sratt, whom Taggert was intent on making an example out of. As the Seldom Different checked out clear, Taggert decided to let the Corellian, his ship, and his passengers go. This was Drake's first encounter with the Empire. Sratt nursed Drake until they made it back to Socorro, and Drake could finally be reunited with his father. Drake Paulsen first appeared in Out of the Cradle. *The Black Sands of Socorro *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia *The Essential Reader's Companion Category:Force-sensitives Category:Humans Category:Males Category:Pirates Category:Smugglers Category:Socorrans