45307
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Sai
Sai
3757

thumb|right|250px|Cade Skywalker utilizing sai while dueling Darth Stryfe. In lightsaber combat, sai was a jump used by Jedi and other Force-users to evade an attack directed at the legs. thumb|left|180px|Luke Skywalker performing the sai during his duel with Darth Vader While the primary purpose of the sai was to simply overleap an attack, it could also be applied tactically, such as facilitating retreat or counter-attack. What action the duelist performed depended on the way he jumped, the Force being the main backbone of the strength, height, and speed at which the jump was executed. For counter-attacking, the sai provided several options. The most common was to use the fall as the fulcrum for an overhand blow, a maneuver demonstrated by Darth Vader during his duel with Roan Shryne.Dark Lord: The Rise of Darth Vader Another method of countering involved simply using the height of the jump to attack from above, an example being Kit Fisto's midair cartwheeling during his duel with Grievous, allowing him to cut at the cyborg. Dooku demonstrated a more passive variation of this method during his bout with Obi-Wan Kenobi, flourishing his blade as he leapt to drive back Kenobi. The sai has also been applied in more tactical functions, for retreating or outflanking opponents. A technique demonstrated by Luke Skywalker during his duel with Darth Vader involved leaping above the opponent and attacking from behind. This method became associated with the Ataru combat form. However, it was not without risk, as the opponent could simply stab upward while the duelist was above them.Star Wars: Episode III Revenge of the Sith novelization The sai has also been applied to allow for retreat, the duelist simply leaping away when they overleapt the attack, as shown by Luke Skywalker's retreat from Vader during their rematch, leaping onto an overhead gantry. Even a non Force-sensitive could use sai such as Durge against Anakin Skywalker in their last fight and Jango Fett on Galidraan against Myles' killer. *Jango Fett: Open Seasons 3 *The New Jedi Order: The Unifying Force *Legacy (2006) 31 *Star Wars: Attack of the Clones: The Visual Dictionary *Star Wars: The Complete Visual Dictionary Category:Lightsaber combat