45300
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Shiak
Shiak
25188

thumb|right|260px|[[Agen Kolar/Legends|Agen Kolar is slain through Darth Sidious' use of shiak]] In lightsaber combat, shiak was the act of stabbing an opponent and was considered relatively honorable by the Jedi. Jedi usually stabbed in the leg or arm, while Sith preferred stabbing opponents in the head, the chest or the stomach, often guaranteeing certain death to the unfortunate victim. Jedi Consular Raana Tey received a shiak strike from Shel Jelavan, though it did not immediately end her life.Knights of the Old Republic 24 thumb|right|260px|Kao Cen Darach injuring Vindican Shiak was featured several times during the duel on board Korriban's orbital security station between Sith Inquisitor Vindican, his apprentice Malgus and Jedi Master Kao Cen Darach and his Padawan, Satele Shan. Vindican attempted to impale Darach in the face, but the Zabrak Jedi easily dodged the Inquisitor's strike. Later while single-handedly fighting the two Sith, Darach incapacitated Vindican by activating his apprentice's second blade on her saberstaff through the Sith's abdomen. The Mandalorian Scientist Demagol and his Zeltron daughter, Chantique, both received a shiak strike from Exar Kun's double-bladed lightsaber during the Mandalorian Wars.Knights of the Old Republic 50 This was a result of the latter attempting to attack the former, who grabbed the lightsaber to defend himself but mistakenly activated both ends of it, impaling and killing them both. Jedi Master Meetra Surik received a killing blow from behind from Sith Lord Scourge, when he unexpectedly turned on his allies during their attack on the Sith Emperor.The Old Republic: Revan Jedi Master Ven Zallow was defeated by Darth Malgus' shiak during the Sacking of Coruscant, killing him. Jedi Master Orgus Din was impaled by Darth Angral after trying to assault Angral's cruiser.Star Wars: The Old Republic thumb|left|250px|[[Qui-Gon Jinn/Legends|Qui-Gon Jinn is killed by a shiak strike from Darth Maul.]] During a skirmish on Tython, Darth Zannah applied shiak against the Echani Jedi Master Raskta Lsu from behind, ending the Jedi's life.Darth Bane: Rule of Two In that same battle, Johun Othone died at Zannah's hands in a similar manner when she drove her lightsaber through his chest after he was injured by Zannah's master. Darth Maul used shiak when he stabbed Jedi Master Siolo Ur Manka. He used it again on Qui-Gon Jinn during their duel on Naboo.. Maul performed shiak again on Finn Ertay from behind during the Clone Wars when the two dueled and again on Sabo over Florrum. The Sith Lord executed Satine Kryze with a shiak strike by pulling her onto the Darksaber with the Force. Shiak was used by Anakin Skywalker. He killed a T'surr slave trader named Krayn by stabbing him through the chest.Jedi Quest: Path to Truth He also applied this technique to Tal Merrik from behind, a turncoat senator working for Death Watch who was trying to hold Satine Kryze hostage. The Jedi Knight also applied this technique to kill the powerful Force-wielder known as the Son from behind and his Father and again on several Zygerrians during the Battle of Kadavo. Obi-Wan Kenobi attempted to use shiak on Durge during the Battle of Muunilinst, but failed due to the durable nature of Durge's species. He also used the technique against B1 battle droids on Christophsis, in addition to numerous other battles during the Clone Wars.Star Wars: The Clone Wars film On two occasions, he used sai cha in conjunction with shiak on two battle droids, one aboard the Saak'ak and one during the mission to rescue Even Piell from the Citadel. thumb|right|280px|Fallen Jedi Pong Krell uses shiak against clone troopers Shiak was used by Asajj Ventress when she impaled Jedi Master Fay from behind.Republic 53 She used it again on Senate Commando Faro Argyus when he tried to take all the credit for the rescue of Nute Gunray. She also applied this technique with a Force Choke to Clone Recon Commando Colt during the Battle of Kamino and again on the Bounty Hunter Oked on Tatooine after Battle of Dathomir. Warden Osi Sobeck received a shiak strike from behind by Jedi Padawan Ahsoka Tano, when he attempted to assassinate Wilhuff Tarkin during the Battle of Lola Sayu. Count Dooku applied shiak to kill his former friend Lorian Nod, who tried to prevent his escape on Null.Legacy of the Jedi. He also tried to use shiak on Asajj Ventress during the Showdown at Toydaria, but she redirected it with the Force and he instead stabbed a pipe. He later impaled Gungan Minister Rish Loo during the Skirmish on Naboo. He used shiak on the Pike Syndicate's Minister Lom Pyke during Mission to Oba Diah. General Grievous "rewarded" Gha Nachkt's finding of Jedi Knight Anakin Skywalker's astromech droid R2-D2 and cracking his never-been-erased memory banks by impaling him through the back. He also used it on the Nightsister Daka during the Battle of Dathomir. During the Battle of Coruscant, he used it to devastating effect several times slaying Jedi opponents Roron Corobb, B'ink Utrila, Pablo-Jill, and L'lacielo Sageon.Labyrinth of Evil thumb|left|200px|Starkiller is impaled by his Master, Darth Vader. Barriss Offee used shiak on the mind controlled clone trooper Trap when he tried to infect her with a brain worm. Jedi Master Pong Krell used shiak to slay several clone troopers on Umbara after he revealed his fall to the dark side. The Ming Po Tryla received a shiak strike from the Death Watch's leader, Secret Mandalore Pre Vizsla, for attempting to kill Ming Po's Grandfather Chieftain Pieter during the first skirmish on Carlac. Zabrak Nightbrother Savage Opress used shiak on Jedi Master Adi Gallia on Florrum after goring her with his horns. Darth Sidious used this maneuver to kill Nightbrother Savage Opress during their duel on Mandalore and on Jedi Master Agen Kolar shortly before fatally slashing Saesee Tiin, when a team of Jedi Masters went to arrest him. During and after the Great Jedi Purge, Darth Vader used shiak multiple times. During Vader's attack on the Jedi Temple in 19 BBY, his first Jedi victim was Gatekeeper Jurokk by igniting his lightsaber through Jurokk's head. He also murdered Chief Librarian Jocasta Nu by lifting her into the air and impaling her through the chest. Shortly afterwards, in the hidden passageways underneath the Temple, he killed Sha Koon in a similar manner. Grand Master Yoda used shiak to slay several clone troopers in the Jedi Temple. An unidentified clone trooper of the 501st legion was killed in this manner as well when the diminutive Master hurled his saber at him and it impaled him through the chest. Later that year, when he assailed a secret meeting of surviving Jedi, the first to die by his blade was the Jedi Knight Sia-Lan Wezz, having been impaled by the Dark Lord; he then sliced off her hand as she fell dead.Purge Vader also ended the life of Jedi Master Hylon when he impaled him through the chest atop Mount Dijandi on Otavon XII. Jedi Padawan Drake Lo'gaan was also stabbed through the chest by Darth Vader, though unlike Hylon, Lo'gaan survived the blow. Also, shortly after the Battle of Yavin in 0 ABY, Vader again applied shiak in a battle against a hyenax pack on the planet of Vaal, where he stabbed one of the attacking animals through its skull.Empire 14 The simulacrum of Darth Phobos was defeated by Galen Marek stabbing her in the back. Marek himself was impaled by Darth Vader on the bridge of the Executor when Darth Sidious "discovered" him and was then flung into space. He would survive the betrayal, though he spent six months on the Empirical recovering.Star Wars: The Force Unleashed thumb|250px|right|A Zabrak Dark Jedi uses shiak against a Rebel trooper. During their showdown on Mustafar, X1 threw his lightsaber at his brother, X2. However, X2 dodged, and X1's blade ran him through instead, causing him to stagger off a nearby cliff to his death. Jacen Solo killed his former student Nelani Dinn with shiak after immobilizing her with cho mok and shiim strikes during their mission at The Home near Bimmiel.Legacy of the Force: Betrayal Darth Caedus skewered Jedi Battlemaster Kyle Katarn with this technique, though Katarn would survive the encounter.Legacy of the Force: Fury Shiak was used by Jaina Solo to defeat Yuuzhan Vong Warmaster Tsavong Lah, killing him by running her lightsaber through his neck during the Battle of Ebaq. Thirteen years later, she used it again on her brother, Jacen Solo, by then Darth Caedus, impaling him through the abdomen when she ambushed him during their final duel. Caedus survived the blow, however.Legacy of the Force: Invincible Relin Druur lifted Saes Rrogon with the Force and stabbed his former Padawan with his own lightsaber, killing him instantly.Crosscurrent thumb|left|250px|Darth Krayt kills [[Darth Wyyrlok (III)|Darth Wyyrlok with shiak.]] Luke Skywalker accidentally killed Dyon Stadd by stabbing him in the chest when the dark side being Abeloth disguised herself as him.Fate of the Jedi: Allies Darth Nihl used this technique against Zabrak Jedi Master Wolf Sazen during the Massacre at Ossus, though Sazen would survive the battle.Legacy (2006) 1 Imperial Knight Elke Vetter received a shiak strike to her right leg from Darth Talon.Legacy (2006) 3 Talon herself was later stabbed through the stomach by Cade Skywalker.Legacy (2006) 18 Shiak was used by Darth Krayt, when he impaled the Imperial Knight Mohrgan Fel through the chest during his raid on the Imperial Palace.Legacy (2006) 8 He used it again on his former adviser, Darth Wyyrlok, during a battle for control of the One Sith.Legacy — War 1 Krayt himself was a victim of two shiak strikes. The first time this happened, he was stabbed through his upper back by Imperial Knight Azlyn Rae when she and her allies attempted to assassinate him, though it failed to kill him.Legacy (2006) 31 Later, he was fatally impaled through the chest by Cade Skywalker during their final showdown.Legacy — War 6 Imperial Knight Antares Draco skewered Emperor Roan Fel from behind when he attempted to release a sample of Omega Red on Coruscant, fulfilling his oath to kill his Emperor if he fell to the dark side and could not be redeemed. Two instances of Shaak Ti was being killed with a shiak strike were made for Revenge of the Sith, but both were cut. One involves General Grievous having kidnapped and brought Ti aboard the Invisible Hand. Anakin Skywalker and Obi-Wan Kenobi proceed to encounter them, but before they can do anything, Grievous, standing behind Ti, holds a lightsaber behind her heart and ignites it, killing her. The second scene features Ti meditating in a chamber during Order 66. Skywalker enters, prompting Ti to acknowledge him, though he stays silent, walks behind Ti, and activates his lightsaber through her chest. Both of these are considered to be non-canon, as Star Wars: The Force Unleashed depicts her death to be years later, at the hands of Galen Marek on Felucia. In the video game Star Wars: Jedi Knight: Jedi Academy, the player, if he or she stays on the light side, can stab any opponent in the game. However, if a player chooses to turn to the dark side, Jaden Korr kills Rosh Penin by shiak. After Jaden leaves, Kyle enters and finds Rosh who is severely injured, who says he was sorry that both of Kyle's students had failed him. Before Rosh dies, Kyle assures him that he had become a Jedi. *Knights of the Old Republic 24 *Knights of the Old Republic 50 *The Old Republic: Revan *The Old Republic: Deceived *Star Wars: The Old Republic *The Old Republic: Annihilation *Star Wars: The Old Republic: Knights of the Fallen Empire *Darth Bane: Rule of Two *Jedi — The Dark Side 3 *Jedi — The Dark Side 4 *Jedi Apprentice: The Hidden Past *Jedi Apprentice: The Day of Reckoning *Star Wars: Episode I The Phantom Menace novelization *Jedi Quest: Path to Truth *Republic 52 *Republic 53 *Star Wars: The Clone Wars film *The Clone Wars: The Fall of Falleen *The Clone Wars: The Valsedian Operation *The Clone Wars: Darth Maul: Shadow Conspiracy *Darth Maul — Son of Dathomir 1 *Darth Maul — Son of Dathomir 3 *Darth Maul — Son of Dathomir 4 *Yoda: Dark Rendezvous *Star Wars Battlefront: Elite Squadron *Purge *Purge – Seconds to Die *Purge – The Hidden Blade *Star Wars: The Force Unleashed *Star Wars: The Force Unleashed graphic novel *Star Wars: The Force Unleashed II *Empire 4 *Star Wars (1977) 24 *Star Wars Annual (1977) 1 *Empire 34 *Rebellion 8 *Rebellion 9 *Rebellion 12 *Splinter of the Mind's Eye *Splinter of the Mind's Eye 3 *Splinter of the Mind's Eye 4 *I, Jedi *Star Wars: Jedi Knight: Jedi Academy *The New Jedi Order: Dark Tide I: Onslaught *The New Jedi Order: Destiny's Way *Legacy of the Force: Betrayal *Legacy of the Force: Inferno *Legacy of the Force: Fury *Legacy of the Force: Invincible *Crosscurrent *Fate of the Jedi: Abyss *Fate of the Jedi: Backlash *Fate of the Jedi: Allies *Fate of the Jedi: Vortex *Fate of the Jedi: Conviction *Fate of the Jedi: Ascension *Fate of the Jedi: Apocalypse *Crucible *Legacy (2006) 8 *Legacy (2006) 31 *Legacy (2006) 48 *Legacy — War 1 *Legacy — War 5 *Legacy — War 6 *Legacy (2013) 1 }} *Jedi vs. Sith: The Essential Guide to the Force *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia |cards= }} *The Jedi Path: A Manual for Students of the Force }} Category:Lightsaber combat