45469
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Vontaige
Vontaige
4936

Vontaige, a male Human native of the planet Koros Major, and served the ruler of the Koros system, Empress Teta. In 5000 BBY, faced by a surprise invasion of the Galactic Republic by Dark Lord of the Sith Naga Sadow's Sith Empire, Vontaige attended a meeting with Teta and several others regarding the conflict which would come to be known as the Great Hyperspace War. Vontaige was a male Human native to the planet Koros Major in the Koros system. He served Empress Teta, the ruler of the seven unified worlds of the Koros system. Vontaige served under Teta in the Unification Wars of the Koros system, fighting against rebels on the world of Kirrek. Teta was victorious in the Unification Wars, and Vontaige returned to his place at her side as one of her top advisors. In 5000 BBY, the Sith Empire, led by Dark Lord of the Sith Naga Sadow, launched the Great Hyperspace War, a surprise invasion of the Galactic Republic. Although Empress Teta had already been forewarned, the size of the Sith invasion force seemed to be overwhelming. After the Great Hyperspace War's first outbreak on Coruscant, Vontaige attended a meeting with Teta; Jedi Knight Odan-Urr; hyperspace explorer Jori Daragon, who first warned of the Sith threat; Llaban, former leader of the Kirrek rebel forces; and several other advisors. During the meeting, Vontaige expressed concern that the Koros military didn't have enough firepower to defend their worlds. He also admonished Llaban, telling him that he and his rebels had dealt enough damage. However, Teta forced Vontaige to allow Llaban to speak, and Llaban offered to bolster Teta's military with the addition of his rebel army from Kirrek. Teta accepted and dispatched Llaban to command his forces on Kirrek. Vontaige was fiercely loyal to the Empress. Due to the Unification Wars, Vontaige held great disdain for Llaban, who led the resistance to Teta's rule on Kirrek, and believed that he should not be allowed to participate in the war with the Sith. Vontaige was worried about the size of the Sith fleet compared to the reduced strength of Koros' navy. Unlike other Republic soldiers who wore an oval jewel on their helmet, Vontaige had a square-shaped jewel, denoting his higher rank. Vontaige appeared in the third issue of Tales of the Jedi: The Fall of the Sith Empire, a story arc of the Star Wars: Tales of the Jedi comic book series, written by Kevin J. Anderson, illustrated by Dario Carrasco, Jr., and released in 1996. *Tales of the Jedi – The Fall of the Sith Empire 3 Category:Admirals and generals Category:Humans Category:Males Category:Tetans