45546
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/South_Apartments
South Apartments
3069

The South Apartments was a residential complex located in the Upper City of the planet Taris. Galactic Republic soldiers Carth Onasi and Revan used one of the apartments as a temporary hideout during the rescue of Bastila Shan. Due to the strict laws of aliens not being allowed in the Upper City, this apartment complex became the home of many illegal aliens, such as Ixgil and his companion, although it was also used as a hideout for Dia, a Human female who was hiding out in the apartment complex after she had a bounty on her head. The conditions of the apartments were considered too poor for the majority of the Upper City citizens, who were used to more glamorous accommodation, being the more wealthy citizens of Taris. The landlord of the South Apartments then began to rent the apartments out to illegal aliens as it was unlikely the Tarisian Authorities would bother investigating such a run-down building. The welfare and cleaning of the Apartments was managed by the old janitor Kadir who was considered by the majority of the residents as quite a poor janitor, however Kadir believed he made the best of the limited resources he had available to him. The Upper City South Apartments were used as a place of living and a hideout for oppressed aliens. Those who were present there included: *Ixgil *A Duros *A Quarren *A Female Twi'lek *Two Ithorians *Dia *Kadir *Larrim The Quarren, the Ithorians and the Twi'lek were generally skeptical of Revan and his companions and showed mixed reactions to the Taris Situation and engagement in conversation. The Quarren was seen wandering the halls and spoke to Revan about how he was an affluent and privileged individual before becoming trapped on Taris. The Ithorians were fearful and dismissive of Revan engaging them, and so was the Twi'lek, who pled Revan to not harm her. *Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic *Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic: Prima's Official Strategy Guide Category:Residential buildings Category:Upper City locations