45570
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/T-24_airspeeder
T-24 airspeeder
4129

The T-24 airspeeder was an atmospheric airspeeder produced by Incom Corporation years before the Battle of Naboo. They were referred to as atmospheric flyers. thumb|left|200px|Nella Bold's T-24 atmospheric flyer The T-24 was a small, wedge-shaped airspeeder with a single fin mounted on top of the central cockpit. A side-opening door led inside the flyer, which could accommodate one pilot and two passengers. Incom only manufactured two hundred T-24 models, and as of 37 BBY, these speeders were considered outdated. Nella Bold, daughter of Orin Bold, owner of the Bold moisture plant on Ord Mantell, claimed she acquired a green-hued Incom T-24 after it was abandoned by miners. Nella made several modifications, adding a Subpro thrust accelerator and a Mobquet exhaust converter&mdash;managing to find a way around the incompatibility issues between Incom and Mobquet designs. She also added a retractable twin blaster cannon to the underside of the speeder. Nella transported Qui-Gon Jinn and Obi-Wan Kenobi to Taxer Sundown's stellar energy station in her T-24 five years prior to the Invasion of Naboo. The Jedi were attacked by Sundown's thugs, and Nella was abducted and taken to his private retreat. The Jedi intended to pursue in the T-24, but arrived back at the docking bay in time only to see a thief fly off with the airspeeder. It transpired that the T-24 was taken back to the Bold moisture plant, where Obi-Wan learned Sundown had originally given Orin the speeder, and had hypnotized him into believing he had salvaged it. Sundown used it to stash goods from the moisture plant to his own facility, letting the unwitting Nella transport them. When Obi-Wan confronted Sundown, he escaped in the T-24, though Obi-Wan gave chase on a speeder bike. He sliced the fin from atop Sundown's stolen craft, causing the airspeeder to crash outside his energy plant, breaking Sundown's neck. The canopy was forcibly ripped off by a Mantellian Savrip. The design of the T-24 was copied for Incom's later T-47 airspeeder model, though this version lacked the top-mounted fin. *Qui-Gon and Obi-Wan: Last Stand on Ord Mantell 2 *Qui-Gon and Obi-Wan: Last Stand on Ord Mantell 3 *Scoundrels *The New Essential Guide to Vehicles and Vessels *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Airspeeder models Category:Incom Corporation products