45605
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/L%27Xing
L'Xing
7290

The L'Xing were a sentient species that lived on the Outer Rim Territories world Praven Prime, which was a part of Gu-vandi-held space. At some point by 3951 BBY, an HK-50 series assassin droid posing as a translator intentionally mistranslated a L'Xing language phrase, causing a long civil war between the L'Xing and the Gu-vandi Collective. As a result of the conflict, the Galactic Republic withdrew its presence from Gu-vandi space, and the HK-series assassin droid HK-47 eventually predicted that the war would drastically reduce the L'Xing population. The L'Xing were a sentient species that lived on the world Praven Prime in the Outer Rim Territories' Quelii sector. &mdash; Based on corresponding data for Praven Prime system They spoke the L'Xing language, and, according to the HK-series assassin droid HK-47, the species had a "torpid" disposition that led its members to favor words over actions. thumb|left|300px|The L'Xing lived on Praven Prime. By 3959 BBY, Praven Prime was a part of the "civilized galaxy," the territory that had been widely explored by the Galactic Republic.The Essential Atlas &mdash; Based on corresponding data for Praven Prime system By some point between 3955 BBY and 3951 BBY,The Essential Atlas dates the events of Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic II: The Sith Lords, which establishes that the civil war between the Gu-vandi Collective and the L'Xing broke out no more than four years prior, to 3951 BBY. the L'Xing homeworld was situated in space controlled by the Gu-vandi species, and it was also a part of the Republic. At one point, an HK-50 series assassin droid&mdash;a unit of an assassin droid model that had originally been designed by the Human Sith Lord Darth Revan and that was later mass-produced by the rogue G0-T0 infrastructure planning system known as G0-T0Knights of the Old Republic Campaign Guide&mdash;masquerading as a translator droid intentionally mistranslated the L'Xing word for "friendship" to instead convey the implication that a specific individual's brood mate had been impregnated by their own host. The mistranslated phrase led to an outbreak of a civil war between the L'Xing and the Gu-vandi Collective. As a result of the civil war, the Republic decided to withdraw control over Praven Prime and retreated from Gu'vandi space. thumb|right|250px|HK-47 (pictured) claimed the civil war had a positive impact on the L'Xing. In 3951 BBY, while the civil war was still ongoing, HK-47, who had originally served as the basis for the HK-50 model, informed the Human Jedi Knight known as the Jedi Exile about the conflict involving the L'Xing. The droid reasoned that the outbreak of the conflict and the withdrawal of the Republic would be eventually prove to be beneficial to that government, speculating that continued control over the world would have been an unnecessary burden in the form of resources needed to maintain diplomatic and trade relations. HK-47 further claimed that the L'Xing had "needed a good war" and that the conflict had "woken" the species from its relatively inactive disposition. The droid predicted that the civil war would drastically reduce the L'Xing population, which would then be forced to petition the Republic to supply emergency relief. Lastly, HK-47 also prognosticated that the requested aid would only be granted four to five years after the onset of the war, and that in the meantime "[one] would have to be patient and let death and destruction run its course." The L'Xing were introduced in the 2004 Obsidian Entertainment video game Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic II: The Sith Lords. In the game, the species can be mentioned in an optional conversation the player character, the Jedi Exile, can have with the character HK-47. This article assumes one hundred percent game completion and that the conversation took place as described. *Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic II: The Sith Lords Category:Outer Rim Territories sentient species