46258
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/List_of_Legends_elements_in_the_films
List of Legends elements in the films
43054

C-canon elements from licensed Expanded Universe (EU) creators have appeared in the Star Wars films, mainly the prequel trilogy. Most of these are brief appearances, almost taking the form of Easter eggs, and are even hardly distinguishable. However, others are more substantial. The prequel trilogy also has many references to names and elements introduced in the television series Star Wars Droids due to Ben Burtt's large involvement in both, not the least of which is the cameo by himself as Ebenn Q3 Baobab in The Phantom Menace. The reverse process is also true: many Expanded Universe works have given names and/or background information to nearly every element shown in the films. Additionally, the Visual Dictionary series, along with other official sources such as "What's The Story?," has also introduced many retcons, thus "creating" C-canon depictions in films&mdash;e.g. the Star Wars: Revenge of the Sith: The Visual Dictionary identifies Count Dooku's tunic in Revenge of the Sith as being created on Vjun, a planet found heretofore strictly in the EU. The significance of these identifications, for the most part, is downplayed in this article. After the reboot of 2014, EU material has been harvested for use in the new continuity, and films including Star Wars: Episode VII The Force Awakens borrow Legends material. thumb|right|100px|Baobab at the celebrations following the [[Battle of Naboo/Legends|Battle of Naboo]] *The species name Rodian first appeared in Galaxy Guide 1: A New Hope, a West End Games sourcebook, but was used in the prequel trilogy in George Lucas's handwritten scripts and production notes (although it is never mentioned in dialogue). *The name "Coruscant" was coined by Timothy Zahn for The Thrawn Trilogy. Lucas developed the ecumenopolis of the capital called Had Abbadon and planned to include the planet in Return of the Jedi, but decided to adopt the name created by Zahn for the Imperial capital when presenting the planet in the Special Editions and prequel trilogy. *The writing system called "Aurebesh" that appears is the one created for Star Wars Miniatures Battles Companion, a West End Games rulebook, by Stephen Crane, who had, in turn based it on meaningless script appearing in the original trilogy. *Hutts being a species, rather than a gangster title (as originally suggested), originated in Galaxy Guide 4: Alien Races, a West End Games sourcebook. *The Jedi Code is mentioned, having first appeared in the first edition of West End Games' Star Wars: The Roleplaying Game, based on the concept of the Jedi Oath developed in the early drafts for Star Wars Episode V: The Empire Strikes Back.Star Wars: The Annotated Screenplays *Boonta Eve Classic resembles the Boonta Speeder Race from the Droids episode "A Race to the Finish." *The physics of how podracers fly was inspired in part by what the LucasArts team created for Star Wars Episode I: Racer. *The following could have been intentional EU references, or later retcons, coincidences, or EU extrapolations: **Prince Xizor appears as a spectator at the Mos Espa Grand Arena. A Micro-Machines model of the Shadows of the Empire villain was used to populate the crowd, possibly randomly, without canonical significance. **Toong, the species of Ben Quadinaros, was mentioned in Droids, while his homeworld, Tund, was first mentioned in The Lando Calrissian Adventures and appeared in that trilogy's final volume, Lando Calrissian and the Starcave of ThonBoka. **The Theelin species appears, in the form of Diva Shaliqua. The species first appeared in Star Wars: Dark Empire. (Another Theelin had already appeared in the Return of the Jedi Special Edition; see below.) **Ebenn Q3 Baobab may be a member of the Baobab family introduced in Droids. The role was a cameo by sound designer Ben Burtt who intentionally chose the name to link his character to the show. **Shmi and the others watch the race through a device described as a datapad. Datapads as "data pads" first appeared in Star Wars: The Roleplaying Game and adapted into Heir to the Empire and have shown up in other EU books since. **Darth Maul's double-bladed lightsaber was a design originally seen wielded by Exar Kun in the third and fifth issues of the Tales of the Jedi: The Sith War comic book series. thumb|right|100px|The painting by [[Jon Foster that secured Aayla's place in the Star Wars saga]] *Aayla Secura appeared as a minor character in the movies, played by Amy Allen. The character was introduced in Star Wars: Republic: Twilight, released after The Phantom Menace. George Lucas liked her illustration in a cover art and decided to adapt her character. *Action VI transports initially appeared as the Wild Karrde in Heir to the Empire. They also arrive at the Theed Spaceport in Attack of the Clones. *The planet Rishi, introduced in Dark Force Rising, was given a mention via the Rishi Maze in Attack of the Clones. *The swamp planet of Bogden that was mentioned by Jango Fett appeared in the Droids episode "The Revenge of Kybo Ren." *When Obi-Wan uses a lightsaber blade to block Dooku's Force lightning, this is possibly inspired by Luke Skywalker doing the same to Joruus C'baoth's lightning in the second novel of the Thrawn trilogy, Dark Force Rising. This was visually depicted in the comic adaptation, from which George Lucas also chose to highlight some panels in the book containing his favorite comic artwork, Star Wars Art: Comics. Author Timothy Zahn has stated he believes that George took inspiration of this ability from this comic depiction for the film. *Luminara Unduli and Barriss Offee, the two Jedi sent to rescue Anakin Skywalker, Obi-Wan Kenobi and Padmé Amidala, albeit written for the film, first introduced to the audience in the novels Cloak of Deception by James Luceno and The Approaching Storm by Alan Dean Foster. *Dex's Diner is similar to the diner in an episode of Droids. *The concept of power couplings (of the type that Obi-Wan and Anakin flew through) first appeared in the Star Wars: Dark Empire comics. *The depiction of the nightlife of Coruscant was inspired in part by illustrations Ralph McQuarrie made, as well as descriptions Kevin J. Anderson wrote, for The Illustrated Star Wars Universe. thumb|right|The apocryphal ending of Jedi Knight *The following may have been intentional EU references, or later retcons, coincidences, or EU extrapolations: **In the Expanded Universe material, San Hill is identified as a Muun from Muunilinst, a planet first mentioned in Specter of the Past. **Footage similar to that found in Star Wars: Episode I Racer can be seen on a screen in the Outlander Club. **The region of Coruscant where Dooku arrives and meets Sidious resembles the Coruscant scenes in the alternate dark-side ending of Star Wars: Jedi Knight: Dark Forces II. However, in Jedi Knight, the Imperial Palace appears instead of the LiMerge Building. **Power chairs first appeared in Tales of the Jedi: The Golden Age of the Sith. However, the concept of an antigravity seat is common in science fiction, so this may be mere coincidence. **Mace Windu wields a purple bladed lightsaber. The concept of a purple saber first appeared in the Jedi Academy trilogy, but was first depicted visually in the video game Star Wars: Masters of Teräs Käsi utilised by Mara Jade,Star Wars: Masters of Teräs Käsi although in Windu's case, the color was a personal request of Samuel L. Jackson. Before that, George Lucas insisted that Jedi lightsabers are blue or green. **Dooku wields a lightsaber with a curved hilt. In the short story "Bane of the Sith." written by Kevin J. Anderson Darth Bane uses a "hooked handled" saber, although the curved hilt in the film designed by Dermot Power, who wanted to achieve an "exotic, almost arabic" look.The Art of Star Wars: Attack of the Clones thumb|right|A scene familiar to gamers appears for the first time in a film Revenge of the Sith has several elements that first appeared in Legends sources, such as Labyrinth of Evil, that were written during the movie's production. However, since those sources borrowed those elements directly from the finished post-production movie script (for example, General Grievous was written for the film but first appeared in Star Wars: Clone Wars), they are not included. *The form of Force Grip that appears in the scene with Darth Tyranus and Obi-Wan (immobilizing and lifting the target) first appeared in the Jedi Knight games. *Plo Koon's Delta-7 Aethersprite-class light interceptor has the same paint scheme as the Azure Angel. *Legends character Quinlan Vos is mentioned (as "Master Vos") by Obi-Wan Kenobi in the one of the Jedi Temple's many data rooms. (Vos in turn was based on a background extra at the Mos Espa café in The Phantom Menace.) A cameo of this character during the execution of Order 66 was planned but not filmed. *As first mentioned in The Illustrated Star Wars Universe, Aldera is depicted as at the very least being close to a lake, if not at the center as previously noted. *Sound clips of Attichitcuk's growls from The Star Wars Holiday Special were used for a few of Tarfful's growls during Yoda's goodbye scene to him and Chewbacca.Revenge of the Sith on-line DVD text commentary Additionally, Star Wars: Revenge of the Sith Incredible Cross-Sections shows Attichitcuk using one of the gun platforms during the Battle of Kashyyyk. *The sinkhole grottoes of Utapau resemble the pirate caves on Tarnoonga as seen in the Droids episode "The Pirates of Tarnoonga" and, to a lesser extent, the Great Well on Ophideraan, from the "The Serpent Masters" story arc of the Star Wars newspaper comic strip. *General Grievous's wheel bike is similar to Jann Tosh's vehicle in Droids. *Tsui Choi appears in the beginning of the Kashyyyk scene, riding a can-cell. *When Mace Windu and Yoda use a lightsaber blade to block Palpatine's Force lightning, this is possibly inspired by Luke Skywalker doing the same to Joruus C'baoth's lightning in the third novel of the Thrawn trilogy, The Last Command. This was visually depicted in the comic adaptation, from which George Lucas also chose to highlight some panels in the book containing his favorite comic artwork, Star Wars Art: Comics. Author Timothy Zahn has stated he believes that George took inspiration of this ability from this comic depiction for the film. *The following may have been intentional EU references, or later retcons, coincidences, or EU extrapolations: **Anakin Skywalker's double-lightsaber decapitation of Count Dooku is similar to Luke Skywalker's defeat of Shimrra Jamaane in The New Jedi Order: The Unifying Force. **The 501st Legion was canonized in Survivor's Quest before being included in Revenge of the Sith. In turn, it was a real-life charity organization, being therefore also a fanon element that made its way into continuity. **A Juggernaut tank is prominently seen during the Battle of Kashyyyk. Although based on unused original AT-AT concept art, therefore, not a Legends content, the Juggernaut was established in the Legends continuity as a siege vehicle of the Old Republic. **Baron Papanoida had been identified as a Wroonian before his species was retconned as a Pantoran. Wroonian appeared first in issue seven of the Marvel Star Wars comic series. **Padmé Amidala says, "This war represents a failure to listen." The character Mira says the same sentence in Jedi: Mace Windu. **The film's Buzz droids serve a purpose very similar to the Expanded Universe's Grutchins.thumb|300px|An elaborated [[Great Hyperspace War Bas-Relief|frieze kept in Supreme Chancellor Palpatine's chambers, later claimed to be depicting a battle during the Great Hyperspace War by Star Wars: Complete Locations]] *The following are retcons: **The Room of a Thousand Fountains appears in a hologram when Cin Drallig fights with Darth Vader; it was first mentioned in Jedi Apprentice: The Rising Force. **Nee Alavar, a background character, was identified as a Lorrdian. The Lorrdian people first appeared in the novel Han Solo's Revenge. **The relief visible in Palpatine's office in the film was identified by Star Wars: Complete Locations as a frieze depicting the Great Hyperspace War.Star Wars: Complete Locations However, according to George Lucas, there was never a war between Jedi and Sith,The Star Wars Archives: Episodes I–III, 1999–2005 furthermore, the frieze itself intended to show "Jedi and aliens and warriors fighting each other"The Art of Star Wars Episode III: Revenge of the Sith with some of the aliens resembling "grays".Creating the Worlds of Star Wars: 365 Days **Salporin first appeared in Heir to the Empire. A Wookiee in the movie has been retconned to be Salporin. **Olana Chion, a Jedi, first appeared in Jude Watson's Jedi Apprentice: The Fight for Truth. thumb|right|250px|The Outrider (upper left) taking off from Mos Eisley *The Outrider (and with it, YT-2400 light freighters generally) were added to a scene in the Special Edition. The craft can be seen from a distance lifting off from Mos Eisley. This ship was first designed by Jon Knoles and Doug Chiang for Shadows of the Empire, and after LucasArts started cooperating more thoroughly with Industrial Light and Magic, the latter were impressed with a high-resolution render Knoles had made of the Outrider for Shadows of the Empire. They chose to include the craft in the film, and in marketing material it also was highlighted as being the Outrider from Shadows of the Empire.The Secrets of Star Wars: Shadows of the Empire, Part 4: Battle Zones, II. Battleships *Another addition from Shadows of the Empire is the appearance of the Sentinel-class landing craft seen in the new dewback scene as well as above Mos Eisley. While looking through LucasArts' library of ship models, Industrial Light and Magic were impressed that the detail of LucasArts' render of the ship surpassed their own, so they included LucasArts version of the craft in the film. *Swoop bikes were a new addition to the film, and they were redesigned and added to Shadows of the Empire. In the Special Edition scenes added to A New Hope, a swoop bike scares a ronto. *ASP-series droid, had appeared in Shadows of the Empire. *The tractor beam characters were changed from English to Aurebesh for the 2004 DVD Edition. Of note is the fact that the Aurebesh had appared in original releases of the original trilogy (i.e. the clearance code screen for Tydirium in Return of the Jedi) is made up of nonsense characters. West End Games created a 'translation" to English letters for Star Wars: The Roleplaying Game based on what had appeared onscreen. When using these newly assigned equivalents, most of the original trilogy Aurebesh remains unintelligible; however, in the prequel trilogy and a few remastered original trilogy examples, it has an actual meaning. *It is not known if the following were intentional EU references, or were later retcons, coincidences, or EU extrapolations: :*In the Star Wars video game, Boba Fett is shown as being present on Mos Eisely. In the 1997 Special Edition, Boba Fett was newly added into a scene taking place in nearly the same location, confirming the character's presence on the planet at this time. *Tibanna gas platforms were added to the Special Edition version of the film from a painting Ralph McQuarrie did in the 1990s, in coordination with Kevin J. Anderson, for The Illustrated Star Wars Universe. Other buildings of Cloud City, created for the Special Edition by Industrial Light and Magic, were also inspired by the paintings for the book. The Tibanna gas platforms in The Empire Strikes Back can be seen as Luke flies to Cloud City. *Boba Fett, who first appeared in the Holiday Special in 1978, plays a major role as the individual who finds the Millennium Falcon. However, the character of Fett was designed for The Empire Strikes Back but revealed to the public through the Holiday Special, much like with Grievous some twenty-six years later. *A similar title, The Empire Strikes, had been used for the December 1978 issue of the Marvel Star Wars series. *The Theelin species, in the person of Rystáll Sant, appears in the Special Edition. The Theelin species had first appeared in Star Wars: Dark Empire. *Boba Fett's rope weapon and jetpack had originally appeared in the Holiday Special, albeit the weapons were designed for The Empire Strikes Back. *A beard was added to Crix Madine's costume when it was realized that Kenner was designing the toy with a beard. *Kylo Ren's name has a one-letter difference from Kybo Ren, a villain from Star Wars: Droids. *Kylo Ren is similar to Jacen Solo/Darth Caedus, a main character in many Legends novels. Like Kylo Ren, he was the son of Han Solo and Leia Organa and fell to the dark side of the Force. **In Legends, Jacen Solo became the apprentice of Lumiya and joined Lumiya's Sith, and in a similar manner Ben Solo became the apprentice of Snoke and joined the Knights of Ren. *After Kylo Ren's fall to the dark side of the Force, Luke goes into exile. In Legends, he was exiled too by Natasi Daala for Jacen's fall to the dark side in the novel Fate of the Jedi: Outcast. *Kylo Ren kills a family member, in his case his father, after his turn to the dark side. In Legends, Jacen killed his aunt Mara Jade Skywalker in the novel Legacy of the Force: Sacrifice.Legacy of the Force: Sacrifice In the Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: The Visual Dictionary, the similarity is made explicit by the introduction of a Sith trial of ascendancy that required sacrifice of a loved one, which Kylo Ren, unbeknownst to himself fulfilled.Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: The Visual Dictionary The trial was a part of the Prophecy of the Sith mentioned in the Lorrd Artifact in the novel Legacy of the Force: Bloodlines.Legacy of the Force: Bloodlines *Kylo Ren's birth name is "Ben Solo" after Obi-Wan Kenobi. "Ben" was the name of the child of Luke Skywalker in Legends and was too named after Obi-Wan Kenobi. *First Order Stormtroopers in Canon play a similar role to the Galactic Alliance Guard in Legends in that they serve as soldiers under the command of Kylo Ren/Darth Caedus. *Until this film introduced Captain Phasma, the only other female Stormtrooper was Jes Gistang, a character from the Legends continuity. **Phasma's character has similarities with Tamith Kai from Legends. Both characters were instructors responsible for recruiting, combat training and discipline, both were warriors originally members of a clan. *The term "Light" (for the Light Side) is mentioned. *Kylo Ren has a crossguard lightsaber as his weapon. A crossguard lightsaber first appeared in the comic book Republic 61. *Luke Skywalker also trained a new generation of Jedi in the Legends continuity, who particularly served as the main focus of the novel series Star Wars: The New Jedi Order. Unlike Legends, Luke's Jedi came to an end abruptly. *The New Republic was first introduced and created for the novel Heir to the Empire. *Han Solo mentions the Moof, which was first pictured in Star Wars: Republic: Vow of Justice. *The film's title was at one point considered to be Shadow of the Empire, likely as a reference to the Star Wars: Shadows of the Empire multimedia project, though it was ultimately dropped according to Pablo Hidalgo. *Galen Walton Erso's first name was also the first name of Darth Vader's secret apprentice in the video game Star Wars: The Force Unleashed and its sequel. *Jyn Erso's name is similar to Jan Ors, the sidekick of Kyle Katarn who stole the Death Star plans in the video game Star Wars: Dark Forces. *Early concept art for the film used the Temple of Pomojema as a setting, but it was ultimately replaced with the Temple of the Kyber. *Darth Vader tries to heal himself in a bacta tank, similar to when Vader tries to use the Force to heal himself in the Shadows of the Empire novel. *The film shows Darth Vader having a castle at Mustafar, taking inspiration from Ralph McQuarrie concept art for The Empire Strikes Back. In Legends, Vader had a palace at Coruscant and a castle at Vjun, respectively seen in the Shadows of the Empire novel and in Dark Empire II 6. *The film's climax takes place during the Battle of Scarif, where the Death Star plans are stolen. In the Legends continuity, the battle in which the plans were stolen was identified as the Battle of Toprawa by the Star Wars radio drama, taking place at Toprawa with the operation identified as Operation Skyhook. *The Battle of Scarif included a Sphyrna-class Hammerhead corvette, based on the Hammerhead-class cruiser first seen in the Legends video game Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic. *The death troopers deployed at Scarif are similar to the Shadowtroopers from the Legends video game Jedi Knight II: Jedi Outcast. *Luke Skywalker during his exile on Ahch-To cuts himself from the Force. This ability was introduced in Legends and was used by Meetra Surik, Kyle Katarn and others. *Luke tricks his nephew Kylo Ren by using a Force projection through the Force to allow the Resistance time to escape. This is similar to how he used projections of himself to confuse his nephew Jacen Solo/Darth Caedus into thinking he was attacking him instead of his sister Jaina. *The organization of four units of two in the Elite Praetorian Guard that guard Snoke may be loosely based on the four Imperial Royal Guards that impersonated Palpatine in an attempt to lead an Imperial splinter faction known as the Second Imperium. Likewise, the First Order was originally formed by a splinter faction of the Galactic Empire. *Luke Skywalker dies and becomes one with the Force. In the Legends continuity, however, Luke's passing happened offscreen. *Han Solo gets enrolled at the Academy of Carida where he gets criticized for conduct reports. In the Legends continuity, however, Solo graduated at the top of his class and wasn't kicked out. *Both Lady Proxima and Tobias Beckett are similar to Garris Shrike, a main character in The Han Solo Trilogy, who served as Han Solo's mentor in the Legends continuity. Likewise, Qi'ra is similar to Bria Tharen, Han Solo's first love in Legends. *Qi'ra uses Teräs Käsi, a martial art that was introduced in the Legends Shadows of the Empire novel and was most notably featured in Star Wars: Masters of Teräs Käsi. *Han Solo releases Chewbacca from Imperial imprisonment, leading the Wookiee to swear a life debt. *Mimban, a planet that appears in Splinter of the Mind's Eye, shows up in the film. *Dryden Vos's study is filled with several artifacts with references to Legends stories, such as the Masthead of Xim the Despot as a reference to the cover of Han Solo and the Lost Legacy. Additionally, the Jewel of Yavin was initially intended to appear, but was dropped in production. Also, the Calrissian Chronicles trilogy is a reference to The Lando Calrissian Adventures book series. *L3-37, Lando Calrissian's droid companion, is similar to Vuffi Raa from The Lando Calrissian Adventures, who also served as the co-pilot of the Millennium Falcon. *The Maw first appeared in Star Wars: The Jedi Academy Trilogy. In The Han Solo Trilogy, the Maw distorts space and time near Kessel, so the distance of the Kessel Run is shortened by flying close to it. The Falcon makes the shortcut while escaping from an Imperial customs ship. *It's not known whether this was a coincidence or not, but the story of Darth Sidious' resurrection after his first death during the Battle of Endor seems to borrow some elements from the Star Wars: Dark Empire comic book series: **After resurfacing from the dead, Sidious organizes a Sith fleet to further his galactic conquest when time comes. This seems to have been inspired by the Katana fleet, which is also comprised of a massive amount of Imperial ships stored away in a far off corner of the galaxy. **Another possible nod to the story is that Supreme Leader Snoke is shown to have been an artificial humanoid being who had many clone bodies stored by Sidious, similarly to how Sidious had many clone bodies to sustain himself so he could rule the galaxy in the comic book. Perhaps as a reference to the comic series; the concept of cloning his original body, later confirmed in the novelization, is briefly brought up for Palpatine's return. ** The Sith Eternal and the Final Order, two organizations lead by Sidious to reconquer the galaxy are similar to the Dark Empire, a regime which Palpatine intended to use to reconquer the galaxy. Likewise, the Dark Empire shows Sidious no longer hiding his affiliation with the Sith. **The Knights of Ren, a group of dark-side users which serve the resurrected Darth Sidious, are similar to the Dark Jedi body called the Dark Side Elite, founded by the reborn Sidious as part of the Dark Empire. Similarly, the Dark Side Elite and the Knights of Ren serve Sidious' new regime and consist of seven members each. **The Sith Sovereign Protectors which serve as Darth Sidious' new royal guard appear to be at least partly based off of the Imperial Sovereign Protectors of the Royal Guard. **The Sith Eternal cult's role in the Final Order mirrors that of the role the Prophets of the Dark Side cult had in the Galactic Empire, as does their role as servants of Darth Sidious. **Exegol, the capital of the Sith Eternal/Final Order in the Unknown Regions resembles Byss which served as the seat of power for the Dark Empire complete with both planets having a blue hue and strong in the Dark side of the Force. **In both cases, Sidious claimed ultimate authority over the entire dark side only to see his own powers fatally redirected against him by opponent. In the Dark Empire, Sidious claimed himself to be the dark side itself and spawned a Force storm, but Luke and Leia used Force harmony to sever his Force connection, which made the storm rogue and it turned against Sidious' own flagship, resulting in death of Sidious' current clone body. In The Rise of Skywalker, Sidious claimed himself to be all the Sith shortly before Rey redirected his own massive torrent of Force lightning back to the Dark Lord, to the same effect. *Besides Dark Empire, the Final Order/Sith Eternal including their military, the Knights of Ren and their home planet of Exegol resemble the Eternal Empire from Star Wars: The Old Republic including their own military, the Knights of Zakuul and their homeworld of Zakuul. Both empires are also based in the Unknown Regions and ruled by a Sith Emperor (Sheev Palpatine/Darth Sidious and Vitiate/Valkorion) who can transfer their conscience from one body to another and launched their attempted conquests on the galaxy during the later stages of a major conflict (Galactic War and the First Order-Resistance War). *The Xyston-class Star Destroyers of the Sith Eternal fleet, armed with planet-destroying axial superlasers, bear some resemblance to the Legends' Conqueror, an Imperial-class Star Destroyer armed with superlaser purpoted to destroy planets. *C-3PO questioning whether there's an afterlife for droids might be a reference to his philosophical story arc in the Star Wars: The New Jedi Order novel The New Jedi Order: Agents of Chaos I: Hero's Trial. *Although it was mentioned in the novel Aftermath: Life Debt that Emperor Palpatine had no known family, the film reveals that Rey belongs to the Palpatine family, from which the only survivors are Palpatine himself and Rey. In the novel Darth Plagueis, Darth Plagueis manipulated Palpatine into killing his family. *Emperor Palpatine is revealed to have sired a son named Dathan. In the Legends continuity, Palpatine was the father of Triclops, a mutant slave who was supposedly the result of Palpatine's relationship with Sly Moore. **Likewise, both canon and Legends contiunities involve Sidious' grandchild becoming a Jedi apprentice of Luke Skywalker. In the Jedi Prince series Ken, son of Triclops, became an apprentice to Luke Skywalker, and was long unaware of his lineage. Much like Rey, he was terrified of it when learning the truth, and so deemed himself born of evil and thus unworthy to join the Rebel Alliance and in The Rise of Skywalker Rey deemed herself unworthy to be the Jedi, but Ken in Legends was reassured by Luke, who told him that he could be a force for good and likewise in The Rise of Skywalker Luke reassured Rey that some things are stronger than blood relations. *While not known if an homage or a coincidence, the appearance of "Empress Palpatine" (which Rey imagines as herself if she falls to the dark side of the Force) resembles that of Eternal Empress Vaylin from Star Wars: The Old Republic. *Sidious inciting Rey to strike him down so he can transfer his spirit into her and rule together may be a reference to the transfer essence power which was used, or intended to be used successfully, by multiple Sith Lords in the Legends continuity, including Emperors Palpatine and Vitiate/Valkorion. **Likewise, Sidious' plot to take over Rey may have been inspired by Cronal's scheme in the novel Luke Skywalker and the Shadows of Mindor, where Cronal intended to do the same to Luke Skywalker, aside that the Sith Citadel throne room shares a heavy resemblance to Cronal's Shadow Throne. **Sidious' ostentible promise to Rey, that after killing him she would be in charge of his immense fleet and, thereby, able to save her friends from the imminent destruction, might be inspired by the closing days of the Legends' continuity war against Zakuul, in which the Commander of the Eternal Alliance had to take the Eternal Throne to pacify the Eternal Fleet and thereby stop its reactivated original program of exterminating everything in the galaxy. In both cases, implicit posession-related Sith trap was present: had Rey completed the ritual her body would be seized by Darth Sidious, and the Alliance Commander's body was almost seized by the Emperor Valkorion, who attempted to wipe the Commander's consciousness from it immediately after the Commander sat onto the Eternal Throne. *Lando Calrissian summoning a massive fleet of civilian volunteers with the Citizens' Fleet is similar to the emergency evac fleet that assisted the Galactic Alliance Remnant in the 47th issue of the Star Wars: Legacy comic series. Like the citizen's fleet, the emergency evac fleet was made up of several vehicles from previous Star Wars stories and opposed a genocide led by Sith-Imperial forces. *Rey's confrontation against Darth Sidious bears some resemblance to Sidious' confrontation against Galen Marek in the Star Wars: The Force Unleashed video game, as both confrontations involved the use of Force lightning. Category:Films Legends elements in the films