47767
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Micamberlecto
Micamberlecto
9164

Micamberlecto was a male Frozian appointed by the New Republic to replace Diktat Daclif Gallamby as Governor-General of the Corellian sector when it joined the New Republic in 12 ABY. Micamberlecto was born on Froz. He developed a condition of depression that only slightly broke when, in 12 ABY, the Corellian sector joined the New Republic and Micamberlecto was asked to rule it as its Governor-General, replacing the pro-Imperial Diktat, Daclif Gallamby. Micamberlecto happily accepted, believing that he would be a symbol of dignity and pride for the Frozian species, and moved into Corona House, the house of Corellia's chief executive. His depression deepened, however, when he went to fill the vacant government positions below him. Due to the lack of New Republic supporters, Micamberlecto was forced to appoint many ex-Imperials to his government. Additionally, many ex-Imperials had been elected to local positions by the Corellian people, resulting in pro-Imperial factions having large influence and leaving very little for Micamberlecto to freely govern. With the strict oversight of the Galactic Republic and its successor, the Galactic Empire, now gone, many Corellians no longer accepted the rule of outside forces, such as the New Republic and Micamberlecto. One Corellian, the former deputy to Diktat Gallamby, Thrackan Sal-Solo, formed a human-supremacist group called the Human League, that began working towards a plot to overthrow Micamberlecto and take control of the Corellian system. In 18 ABY the situation on Corellia began to deteriorate. The Human League began openly opposing Micamberlecto and held nightly torch-light marches around Corona House, where they sang anti-Alien and anti-New Republic songs, started fights, and broke windows on nearby buildings. Additionally, Micamberlecto's influence grew so little that he stopped bothering to call Corellia's military agencies, the Corellian Defense Force and the Public Safety Service, as he wasn't sure if they were on his side and he feared that they would join in the marches against him. Micamberlecto asked the New Republic for help, and it was decided that a trade summit would be held there and attended by New Republic Chief of State Leia Organa Solo, in order to bring light to the planet's problems. Three days prior to the scheduled trade summit, Micamberlecto was delivered a message by a probe droid picked up by the Corellian Defense Force that contained an image of a star explosion along with space-and-time coordinates. His scientists informed him that the type of star in the image could not have exploded on its own. After having dinner with Organa Solo and her family, Micamberlecto looked outside the window of his study with Organa Solo and her husband, Han, and explained Corellia's issues to them as the Human League held another one of their marches below them. The next day, Micamberlecto attended the trade summit, where he greeted delegates alongside Organa Solo. Later that night, he was called into Organa Solo's apartment in Corona House to listen to a Message cube that had been delivered to them and was addressed to the Chief of State, her husband, and the Governor-General. The message cube contained a list of stellar coordinates that Micamberlecto immediately connected with the message he had received earlier. The next day, the Human League launched their insurrection by turning on a massive interdiction field that covered the entire Corellian system, allowing no communications and easy travel in or out. In a Selonian neighborhood in the city of Bela Vistal, a Human League member threw a punch, causing a chain reaction that eventually escalated into full scale rioting across the planet between different species and the Selonian Enclave falling under attack. The ground-based units of the Corellian Defense Force remained loyal to Micamberlecto and attempted to stop the rioting, but the space-based units were on the side of the Human League and helped secure positions such as the CDF's navy yard. While the streets of Corellia's capital, Coronet City were filled with fighting and blaster fire, Micamberlecto worked in his office inside Corona House with his staff to gather as much information as possible on what was going on. The Human League then attacked Corona House by firing a rocket at it, damaging several floors. Micamberlecto along with Organa Solo and Han were trapped inside, although their family managed to escape on the Millennium Falcon immediately after. That evening, Micamberlecto, his staff, and the two Solos gathered around a holoscreen when a message delivered by Sal-Solo himself began to play. Sal-Solo declared Micamberlecto's government illegitimate and that he was the rightful ruler of Corellia, along with claiming that the Human League had the ability to destroy stars and would do so if all non-humans were not deported off the planet. Eventually, the Human League took control of Corona House and Organa Solo was captured and locked inside a bedroom that was being used as a makeshift cell.Assault at Selonia While the League members ransacked the building, Micamberlecto was killed by Sal-Solo, along with many of his staff. *Ambush at Corellia *Assault at Selonia *Showdown at Centerpoint *Cracken's Threat Dossier *Star Wars Encyclopedia *The Essential Chronology *A Guide to the Star Wars Universe, Third Edition, Revised and Expanded *Ultimate Alien Anthology *The New Essential Chronology *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Corellians Category:Frozians Category:Males Category:New Republic governors