47762
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Ensterite
Ensterite
4983

Ensterite was an old, long and traditional sociopolitical Corellian label referring to beings native to the Corellian star system. Among their rituals, there was the heritage of the High Tongue, an ancient and ceremonial language generally spoken during the Purging Days, yet it had fallen into disuse once Galactic Basic was adopted as de facto lingua franca. A big part of an enster’s core belief system was that no marriage could be made, much less consummated, outside the inhabitants of one’s own planetary system. The more extreme zealots restricted it even further, refusing to allow any affiliations offplanet. No exceptions were made. Yes, a young man or woman could go offworld, and yes, even the staunchest Ensterites might turn a blind eye if a son or a daughter somehow managed a temporary alliance with one of the Ekster – the “outsiders”. It was acceptable – barely; it wasn’t spoken of in polite circles, but it was done. Then the young, having got it out of their systems, were to return home, find a spouse from a proper enster family, and settle down. An enster could not bring an ekster home to meet their parents. It was simply not done – not unless one was willing to give up their clan and be renounced and ostracized for the rest of their life. Not to mention bringing shame and contempt on the immediate family.MedStar I: Battle Surgeons The social and personal invisibility did not diminished with time, or even with death. Despite it all, but also because of it, certain practices that in principle should have been forbidden because of their moral ambiguity, started to spread widely and more frequently with time, and were not used to be spoken in polite gatherings. The most common one was Hustru fönster, in which Ekster lovers were brought in secret to a traditional ensterite home as servants as a way to keep their true purpose hidden, thereupon, their ongoing affair with their respective ensterite master/lover under the wraps, and even siring children that, in theory, are illegitimate but not exactly out of wedlock. Amidst their notable clans, there were the Vondars and the Kersos, which were intertwined with each other and mostly made out of doctors, especially surgeons. Among its most prominent members were Jos Vondar and Erel Kersos, both of them surgeons who served the Grand Army of the Republic during the Clone Wars in the Republic Mobile Surgical Unit 7 and abord the Medstar frigate on Drongar. Both doctors, however, defied their ensterite tradition by taking Ekster spouses. Kersos was shunned for the rest of his life being declared a non-permes, while Vondar challenged his family – with the support of Kersos – after his service on Drongar. *MedStar I: Battle Surgeons *MedStar I: Battle Surgeons abridged audiobook *MedStar II: Jedi Healer *MedStar II: Jedi Healer abridged audiobook *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Corellian culture Category:Phrases