48365
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Kettch
Kettch
6990

Kettch was a fictional Ewok X-wing pilot serving with Wraith Squadron, invented as a prank by pilot Wes Janson. Kettch was created by Wraith Squadron pilot Wes Janson during the hunt for Warlord Zsinj as a prank, much to Commander Wedge Antilles's dismay. According to Janson, Kettch was an eager Ewok fitted with prosthetics which enabled him to fly an X-wing. After the Wraiths assumed the guise of a pirate group, the Hawk-bat Independent Space Force, the prank took on life of its own. An Ewok stuffed toy began making appearances around the Hawk-bat base, in the pilots starfighter cockpits, and Antilles even found his TIE/IN interceptor's comm system modified, distorting his voice to sound like an Ewok. When the Wraiths visited Zsinj's flagship, the Executor-class Star Dreadnought Iron Fist, disguised as Hawk-bat pirates, Zsinj asked Garik "Face" Loran (in the guise of General Kargin) whether there was an Ewok starfighter pilot among their ranks, having been informed of Antilles's analyzed transmissions. Face quickly spun a story about Kettch's origins, borrowing heavily from the real life story of Gamorrean pilot Voort "Piggy" saBinring, a fellow Wraith. This then led Zsinj to conclude that Kettch might be an escaped subject from Epsilon Wing of the Binring Biomedical Product facility on the planet Saffalore. Thus, during the Battle of Kuat, Antilles was forced to fly his fighter with the Kettch doll attached to his body, giving many pilots the impression that an Ewok was really flying the starfighter. At the onset of the battle, the Hawk-Bats employed the tactical maneuver known as Kettch's Drill, designed by Antilles, to eliminate a number of enemy fighters before engaging in the battle's heaviest dogfighting. In the end, Antilles used the Kettch ruse to repay Janson for all his pranks. Enlisting the help of the other Wraiths, Antilles crafted an elaborate scheme which resulted in Janson appearing stark naked before the entire squadron. That was the end of Lieutenant Kettch's appearances and the Kettch-related pranks. In a way, however, the legend of Kettch lived on. His fictional story motivated Zsinj to order his scientists to create a real Ewok pilot, Kolot, complete with prosthetics and the ability to speak Basic. Kolot escaped Iron Fist with Gara Petothel, and went with her to Corellia. Gara, or rather, Kirney Slane, found this ironic. "We're both lies that eventually became the truth." thumb|right|250px|An Ewok warrior climbing into the cockpit of a New Republic X-wing }} An image of an Ewok pilot from 1993's Star Wars Gamemaster Handbook, predates the character of Kettch by several years. The image is in itself canon in the Legends continuity, and may have even inspired the Kettch plotline, but it is not clear whether it should be seen as a portrait of Wraith Squadron's stuffed Ewok, or whether it reflects a real Ewok pilot like Kolot or Tarfang. Author Chris Cassidy helped make a custom Kettch action figure for Aaron Allston. There was no suggestion that a real Kettch existed until his name was used for a Hasbro action figure in 2008, as part of an Ewok three-pack including Machook and Keoulkeech. The packaging indicates an Ewok named Kettch participated in a conflict with the Lahsbees after the Battle of Endor, as seen in Marvel Comics' Star Wars 94.Star Wars (1977) 94 *X-Wing: Wraith Squadron *X-Wing: Iron Fist *X-Wing: Solo Command *X-Wing: Isard's Revenge *The New Jedi Order: Enemy Lines I: Rebel Dream Category:Aliases, nicknames, and pseudonyms Category:Ewoks Category:Males