48454
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Battle_of_Falleen_(Yuuzhan_Vong_War)
Battle of Falleen (Yuuzhan Vong War)
7309

During the Yuuzhan Vong War, in 26 ABY, the planet Falleen was attacked by the Yuuzhan Vong. During their campaign to cut off the Corellian Run, Falleen was among those worlds conquered with others being Kalarba, Druckenwell and Rodia. Since the Falleen had not joined the New Republic, the vast majority of the species lived on the planet and they could expect no New Republic reinforcements. Following the battle, the Yuuzhan Vong sent the population into reeducation camps. left|thumb|250px|The Rimward planets along the Corellian Run came under threat of attack after the fall of Kalarba In 25 ABY, the extra-galactic race of invaders, the Yuuzhan Vong, launched a massive conquest campaign directed against all worlds of the Galactic community.The New Jedi Order: Vector Prime Less than a year later, in an attempt to cut off the Rimward leg of the Corellian Run, a vital hyperspace route, the Yuuzhan Vong initiated a blitz across the Doldur sectorThe Essential Atlas and devastated Kalarba. The isolated worlds along the Corellian Run toward the Outer Rim Territories went on full alert as the Yuuzhan Vong captured them one after another. Confidence in the strength of these worlds had been low, and other star systems not yet touched by the war had expected an influx of Falleen and Rodian refugees. The Falleen people had such a strong isolationist spirit that they did not even join the New Republic. When the Yuuzhan Vong invasion fleet reached Falleen, the world surrendered almost immediately. While the planets Druckenwell and Falleen were captured by the invaders, the planet Rodia was placed in a vulnerable position. Afterward, the Peace Brigade, a paramilitary group loyal to the Yuuzhan Vong, captured at least one refugee convoy from Falleen and enslaved its passengers.The New Jedi Order: Ylesia The worlds and star systems conquered at that time, including Falleen, had been home to some of the most visible and active starfaring species. Whether by design on the part of the invaders or merely by coincidence, this strategy gave further fuel to the arguments of non-Human activists. The most paranoid believed that the New Republic leadership had somehow orchestrated a conspiracy to do what the Empire had failed to do – to kill all non-Humans. Many Falleen had hoped that their famous pheromone-based powers of persuasion might make other humanoids friendly toward them, perhaps saving their world. However, the Yuuzhan Vong moved the Falleen into isolation within reeducation camps. Falleen was not liberated before the end of the war, when the surrender of the invaders was signed.The New Jedi Order: The Unifying Force Following the Yuuzhan Vong invasion, the new galactic government had even less contact with Falleen and its inhabitants than it had before.The New Essential Guide to Alien Species *The New Jedi Order: Balance Point *The New Jedi Order: Enemy Lines I: Rebel Dream *The New Jedi Order: Enemy Lines II: Rebel Stand *The New Jedi Order: Traitor *The New Jedi Order: Force Heretic III: Reunion *The New Jedi Order Sourcebook *The New Essential Chronology *The New Essential Guide to Alien Species *The Essential Atlas Category:Battles of Falleen Category:Battles of the Yuuzhan Vong War