48761
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Felinian
Felinian
5694

|lifespan= |origin=Felin system |habitat= |diet= |language= }} The Felinians were a species of sentient felinoids originating from the Felin system. During the Galactic Civil War, the Felinians had developed technology considered primitive in the galaxy at large, but a group of them residing in jungles of the planet Zoma V desired advanced weapons such as blasters, commodities for which they traded precious stones. The Saurian crime lord Sithless Leethe attempted to smuggle Imperial weapons to the Felinians under the oversight of his associate, a Saurian named Slopper. Nevertheless, the couriers he had chosen to deliver the cargo&mdash;spacers to whom he had sold a light freighter on condition of delivery of the unopened crates to the Felinians&mdash;chose to deliver the weapons to the Rebel Alliance instead. The Felinians were sentient felinoids with a physiology that enabled them to wield blaster weapons intended for Humans. Members of the species inhabited the jungles of the world Zoma V, in the Zoma system of the Outer Rim Territories' Hunnoverrs sector. Although their technology was considered primitive by the standards of the greater galaxy, at least some Felinians could use advanced weaponry such as blasters. The Felinians bartered for such goods by trading precious stones. The Felinians hailed from the Felin system, a part of the Spinward sector in the Outer Rim Territories. During the Galactic Civil War, a Saurian crime lord named Sithless Leethe obtained a shipment of Imperial munitions that he attempted to smuggle to the Felinians residing on Zoma V. He stored the weapons in a light freighter called the Limping Lady on Tatooine and placed them under guard of his lieutenant, another Saurian named Slopper. Leethe then found a band of spacers to buy the starship from him; as part of the deal, they agreed to deliver the cargo unopened to the Felinians on Zoma V. Nevertheless, the spacers deviated from the plan and took the weapons instead to the Alliance to Restore the Republic. Leethe discovered their duplicity and retaliated by taking out a bounty for their capture. The Felinians are mentioned in the roleplaying adventure "Limping Lady," which was written by Peter M. Schweighofer and published in Challenge 64 in September 1992. As Challenge magazine was released outside of the Lucas Licensing process, it is considered non-canonical with respect to the Star Wars Legends continuity. The narrative above assumes the player characters&mdash;the unnamed spacers&mdash;deliver the cargo to the Rebel Alliance, as this is the scenario that affords them the largest reward and is considered the correct path. Nevertheless, what they do with Sithless Leethe's cargo is up to them; players may also opt to visit Zoma V and deliver the weapons to the Felinians. In such a scenario, the catlike aliens give the Saurian Slopper 5,000 credits in precious stones in exchange. In July 1993, Role Player Independent 8 released the article "The Felin" which featured a very similar alien. Category:Feline sentient species Category:Outer Rim Territories sentient species