48822
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Karnak_Alphan
Karnak Alphan
2855

The Karnak Alphans, alternately Karnak, were the indigenous sapient species of the planet Karnak Alpha. Other than their hair, none of their bodies could be seen. The hair of young females was knotted into ribbons while young males had bells tied to strands of their hair. Children were highly prized and protected in Karnak Alphan culture, and having many was a status symbol. This respect of children was so great that they were allowed to participate in the government through a special children's council. In the galaxy at large, it was considered appropriate to honor a guest by serving him first at dinner. This was not so with the Karnak Alphans who considered it an honor for the guest's youngest child to be served by one of the host's children. Additionally, the most senior adult guest would consider himself to be most honored if the host's youngest child served him. Karnak Alphans were also fond of unusual animals and devoted much of their resources to creating and maintaining holographic dioramas and large alternate environment zoos. Because of Karnak Alpha's strategic importance, a banquet was held in honor of the arrival of a new Karnak Alphan ambassador in 23 ABY in the Imperial Palace. Among the attendees were Leia Organa Solo, Han Solo, Jacen Solo, Jaina Solo, Anakin Solo, Zekk, Tenel Ka Chume Ta' Djo, Lowbacca, C-3PO, the new Karnak Alphan ambassador, and her children. In the early stages of the banquet, a number of diplomatic gaffes on the New Republic's part were averted by Tenel Ka's knowledge of Karnak Alphan culture. As the evening progressed, Zekk mistook a bouquet for a salad and ate it. When he proclaimed his favorable opinion of the "salad," Leia Organa Solo, despite her lack of knowledge of Karnak Alphan culture, made sure that everyone else among her delegation would eat their "salad" as well. This turned out to be one of the factors in smoothing the way for an alliance and trade agreement with Karnak Alpha. *Young Jedi Knights: The Lost Ones *Star Wars Encyclopedia *A Guide to the Star Wars Universe, Third Edition, Revised and Expanded Category:Core Worlds sentient species