49687
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Quantum-crystalline_armor
Quantum-crystalline armor
4223

Quantum-crystalline armor, also known as layered molecular armor and more informally known as quantum armor, was a defense mechanism designed to be an impenetrable defense. The armor was designed to protect the Sun Crusher. Quantum-crystalline armor was a virtually impregnable armor plating design to protect the Sun Crusher. The armor was constructed of several layers of densely packed atoms, which was laminated and then layered onto another thin film. The film was experimentally phase sifted, and was as durable as the primary layer of armor. The armor was strong enough to theoretically allow the Sun Crusher to survive being caught in the explosion of its own resonance torpedoes.The Essential Guide to Weapons and Technology Quantum-crystalline was specifically developed for use on the superweapon known as the Sun Crusher by the scientists of the Maw Installation. The armor's strength would allow the Sun Crusher to survive the force of a supernova, which the weapon was designed to trigger. When they discovered the secret facility in the middle of the Maw Cluster, Han Solo, Kyp Durron, and Chewbacca were detained by the local Imperial authorities. After enlisting the help of the Sun Crusher's designer, Dr. Qwi Xux, they escaped with the Sun Crusher. Solo took the opportunity to test the quantum armor's strength by ramming the Sun Crusher into the Imperial Star Destroyer Hydra bridge. The Sun Crusher came out the other side, apparently unscathed. After deciding that such a weapon didn't fit with its principles, the New Republic disposed of the Sun Crusher within the atmosphere of the gas giant Yavin, believing that the extreme pressure will succeed in destroying it, but the material was resistant to this too. Later, under the influence of the spirit of the ancient Sith Lord Exar Kun, Kyp Durron extracted the Sun Crusher from Yavin's atmosphere. The quantum armor had held up to the extreme pressures of the gas giant. Durron then took the Sun Crusher on a murderous rampage. Kyp later claimed that he could have retrieved the Sun Crusher just as easily if it had been disposed of in Yavin's sun instead. The Sun Crusher's armor held strong despite the abuse that it was being put through. However, a Corusca gem traveling at extremely fast speeds within the atmosphere of Yavin managed to put a dent in the armor of the Fast Hand, which was equipped with such armor. After the incident, Dr. Xux gave the New Republic the Sun Crusher's technical data and other information. The data on quantum-crystalline armor was also used to rebuild the Cathedral of Winds. *Jedi Search *Dark Apprentice *Champions of the Force *I, Jedi *Young Jedi Knights: Shadow Academy *Young Jedi Knights: The Lost Ones *Young Jedi Knights: Lightsabers *Young Jedi Knights: Darkest Knight *The New Jedi Order: Dark Tide II: Ruin *The New Jedi Order: Star by Star *Death Star Designer *The Essential Guide to Vehicles and Vessels *The Jedi Academy Sourcebook *The Essential Guide to Weapons and Technology *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Armor Category:Compounds Category:Lightsaber-resistant materials