49744
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Mission_to_Yibikkoror
Mission to Yibikkoror
3782

The Mission to Yibikkoror took place on the gaseous planet of Yibikkoror, in the Yinchorri system in 33 BBY. Having escaped the Yinchorri while in space, the Jedi Consular-class space cruiser used by the Jedi team under Koon and Giett crash-landed on a floating platform within the gas planetoid. Soon, they were under attack again from more Yinchorri. "Caught between fire and a precision", Giett called for assistance from Adi Gallia's team, who had also escaped a brush with the Yinchorri. The Kel Dor Plo Koon then suggested to his companions that they traverse through the dense atmosphere on the floating platform. Their Yinchorri pursuers followed them and one fell into the dense sea of gas below, presumably killing him. thumb|left|[[Jedi/Legends|Jedi hanging on a balloon.]] Knowing that they could not rely on Gallia to arrive on time, the Jedi attempted to climb to the top of the platform which was held up by balloons. Having reached the top, they were attacked by more Yinchorri donning flutter-packs, though the Jedi managed to fight them off until the arrival of Gallia's Consular-class space cruiser. However, the cruiser was too large to land on the platform, which was swarmed with throngs of hostile Yinchorri. Thus, the four Jedi stole a balloon in their attempt to reach the cruiser. Having reached its docking rig, they were greeted by the Zabrak Jedi Master Eeth Koth who managed to get K'Kruhk, Lilit, and Koon inside. However, before Micah could get it, he came under attack from more Yinchorri donning flutter-packs. Micah then grabbed the balloon and made another jump while the cruiser moved downwards to allow him to descend down the docking rig. Having barely escaped, the Jedi traveled to Yinchorr to assist Jedi Masters Mace Windu, Saesee Tiin, Qui-Gon Jinn, and Padawan Obi-Wan Kenobi. *Jedi Council: Acts of War 2 *Jedi Council: Acts of War 3 *Star Wars (1998) 41 Category:Battles in the Yinchorri system Category:Battles of the Yinchorri Uprising