49763
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/T-65XJ_X-wing_starfighter
T-65XJ X-wing starfighter
5548

The Incom T-65XJ X-wing starfighter was a starfighter used by the New Republic and the Galactic Federation of Free Alliances. The XJ series boasted increased shield capacity, better maneuverability, and higher sublight acceleration. The starfighter's weapons carried an increased charge and better targeting computers, making the craft a formidable enemy of the foes of the New Republic. Additionally, a third proton torpedo launcher was added to up the fighter's payload to 9 torpedoes total. The XJ model of Incom's incredibly successful X-wing series was one of the more recent versions of the venerable starfighter. When the war against the Yuuzhan Vong started, these models were rarely seen outside of the New Jedi Order and elite Star Destroyer and battlecruiser squadrons. The XJ3 X-wing had come into service by the time of the Battle of Coruscant in 27 ABY. These supplemented the more advanced and more expensive Series III E-wing escort starfighter. The "StealthX" was in use in 35 ABY during the Killik/Chiss conflict. The Jedi tended to use the StealthX or earlier XJ3. The StealthX was a covert strike craft, equipped with features that reduced its visibility both visually and to sensors, though it could be located if it was silhouetted or launching proton torpedoes. The StealthX was described as being smaller than the XJ5 model. The StealthX was also described as being a derivative of the XJ3. The XJ5 (or "ChaseX") was also in use during the Dark Nest Crisis. XJ5 fighters were used by the Reconstruction Authority Space Patrol. The XJ5 was a half a meter shorter than the T-65C. The XJ6 came into use by the Galactic Alliance before the Second Galactic Civil War in 40 ABY. Luke Skywalker's Hardpoint Squadron pilots used these fighters exclusively. The XJ7 would later be used by Rogue Squadron as of 40 ABY. *The New Jedi Order: Vector Prime *Invasion 1 *Invasion 3 *The New Jedi Order: Balance Point *The New Jedi Order: Edge of Victory I: Conquest *The New Jedi Order: Edge of Victory II: Rebirth *The New Jedi Order: Dark Journey *Dark Nest I: The Joiner King *Dark Nest II: The Unseen Queen *Dark Nest III: The Swarm War *Legacy of the Force: Betrayal *Legacy of the Force: Bloodlines *Legacy of the Force: Sacrifice *Star Wars Roleplaying Game Core Rulebook *The New Jedi Order Sourcebook *Power of the Jedi Sourcebook *Starships of the Galaxy, Saga Edition *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Starship classes of the Galactic Alliance Category:Starship classes of the New Republic XJ