49710
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Unidentified_red-armored_Sith_Lord
Unidentified red-armored Sith Lord
5256

An individual was a member of the Jedi Order by 6900 BBY. Becoming a Dark Jedi, they fought against the Order during the Hundred-Year Darkness, at the conclusion of which they were among the group of Dark Jedi exiled from known space. Discovering the region inhabited by the Sith species, the exiles became rulers of the Sith Empire, with the armored Dark Jedi individual eventually becoming a Sith Warrior. A Force-sensitive individual served as a member of the Jedi Order by 6900 BBY.Tales of the Jedi – The Golden Age of the Sith 0 establishes that the Sith Warrior was originally a member of the group of Dark Jedi who were exiled by the Jedi Order and subsequently arrived in Sith Space. Jedi vs. Sith: The Essential Guide to the Force dates both of those events to 6900 BBY. They became a member of the group of Dark Jedi who opposed the Jedi Order during the conflict known as the Hundred-Year Darkness. After the Dark Jedi were defeated during the final battle of that war in 6900 BBY, the Jedi exiled their surviving enemies,Jedi vs. Sith: The Essential Guide to the Force including the individual who would at one point wear red armor, to uncharted space, where the Dark Jedi eventually arrived in the region known as Sith Space. There, the exiles became Sith Lords, rulers of the Sith species' Sith Empire. The armored Sith Lord, who eventually became a member of the Sith Warrior martial tradition,The Dark Side Sourcebook was at one point present at an open space overlooked by a large audience, with a member of the Sith species kneeling down and prostrating themselves before the Sith leader. The Sith Lord wore a red coat and articles of black-and-brown clothing along with black pants. They also wore brown boots, brown gloves, and a brown belt with several pouches. The Sith was equipped with red-colored armor plates that covered their upper torso, elbows, forearms, and hands, and wore a red helmet with a black visor. A lightsaber was clipped to their belt. The Sith Lord first appeared in a flashback scene in the prologue issue of Dark Horse Comics' Star Wars: Tales of the Jedi – The Golden Age of the Sith comic book mini-series. The issue was written by Kevin J. Anderson, penciled by Chris Gossett, and published on July 31, 1996. *Tales of the Jedi – The Golden Age of the Sith 0 *Star Wars: Secrets of the Sith *The Dark Side Sourcebook Category:Exiles Category:Individuals of unspecified gender Category:Individuals of unspecified species Category:Individuals with unspecified pronouns Category:Sith Lords of the Sith Empire Category:Sith Warriors