49938
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Yuuzhan_Vong_fleet
Yuuzhan Vong fleet
5760

thumb|right|250px|A Yuuzhan Vong fleet This fleet was the unified armada of ships and vessels of the Yuuzhan Vong Koros-Strohna in their attempted conquest of the galaxy. The Yuuzhan Vong traveled in great worldships to come to the galaxy. When scouts located the galaxy 50 years before the beginning of the invasion, agents had been set up to provide a flow of intelligence to the Yuuzhan Vong. The Praetorite Vong were the first to enter the galaxy, thus beginning the Yuuzhan Vong War. But during the Battle of Helska IV, the yammosk and almost the whole fleet were destroyed, leaving only rogue elements inside the galaxy. When Shedao Shai's fleet entered the galaxy, their first mission was to finish the work that the Praetorite Vong started. When Deign Lian discovered what the Jedi on Garqi destroyed, he and Shai planned their attack on Ithor. But, after the death of Shedao Shai in battle, Deign Lian was also killed after trying to leave the system after destroying the ecosystem of Ithor. After the capture of Obroa-skai, Priest Harrar and Commander Tla planned to fake a defection of priest Elan to kill large numbers of Jedi. To get the New Republic to trust Elan's intelligence, they, with Commander Malik Carr, planned to lose some battles, and lose many vessels in the process. But after Elan's failure and her death, Supreme Commander Nas Choka decided that Harrar and Tla could no longer be trusted and recalled them to the Outer Rim. thumb|left|180px|A New Republic [[Scout ship/Legends|scout ship monitoring the Yuuzhan Vong fleet]] After being stationed in Hutt Space, Choka arrived and planned to begin the invasion of the Core. After leading the New Republic to believe they were going to attack Corellia, Choka lead an assault on Fondor. But, during the battle, Centerpoint Station was fired and half of the Yuuzhan Vong armada at Fondor was destroyed. Nas Choka believed that the Hutts had betrayed them and set a course back to Hutt Space. Steadily, the Yuuzhan Vong fleet moved toward the Core Worlds, taking planets. By the time Supreme Overlord Shimrra Jamaane arrived on Yuuzhan'tar, most of the fleet was spread out along the galaxy. When the Yuuzhan Vong were defeated in the Battle of Yuuzhan'tar, the Yuuzhan Vong fleet was sent into Coruscant Prime as part of the Sekot Accords. After the First Battle of Obroa-skai, the New Republic Defense Force estimated the Yuuzhan Vong naval strength to be at one thousand capital ships, deployed in small groups of twenty-five to seventy-vessels each consisting of analogs to warships, cruisers, destroyers, troop carriers, frigates, corvettes and gunships, along with starfighters known as coralskippers. *Star Wars Roleplaying Game Core Rulebook Category:Fleets Category:Yuuzhan Vong military units