50105
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Sunstone
Sunstone
6454

Sunstones were a type of valuable crystal that could be used for decoration, jewelry, and to focus and strengthen energy. In 382 BBY, some sunstone was brought to Eirie&mdash;the moon of E'ronoh and its twin planet Eiram&mdash;to decorate a platform for a celebration. At some point between around 170 BBY and around 160 BBY, Jedi Wayseeker Vernestra Rwoh was given one of the sunstones of Dytrew&mdash;albeit a flawed one&mdash;by Dytrew's Keepers of Dytrew for saving their villages from a vicious creature. Around 160 BBY, she gave the sunstone to the bounty hunter Deva Lompop as compensation for the latter's assistance. Lompop was pleased with the stone as payment, unaware she had been given a worthless crystal. Suntones were a type of crystal that visually appeared to have a light glowing within. The crystals could be used for decoration, jewelry, and to focus and strengthen energy. However, if the crystal had a flaw in it, it could no longer be used for the latter energy-related usage. Sunstones could be found on the Outer Rim planet E'ronoh. By the time of the High Republic Era, sunstones were considered valuable. In 382 BBY,Star Wars: The High Republic Character Encyclopedia dates the events of The High Republic: Cataclysm to 382 BBY. some sunstones were brought to Eirie&mdash;the moon of E'ronoh and its twin planet Eiram&mdash;to decorate a platform celebrating the opening of a hyperlane connecting the two worlds to the wider galaxy. thumb|right|300px|Vernestra Rwoh gave a flawed sunstone to Deva Lompop (pictured) as payment, though the latter did not realize the crystal was worthless. At some point between around 170 BBY and around 160 BBY, The novel also establishes that Vernestra Rwoh visited Dytrew at some point after becoming a Wayseeker ten years before the book's start, thus placing her time at Dytrew to between around 170 BBY and around 160 BBY. Jedi Wayseeker Vernestra Rwoh visited Dytrew and helped the natives repel a vicious creature attacking their villages. As thanks, the Keepers of Dytrew gave Rwoh one of the sunstones of Dytrew. Though she initially refused to accept, they assured her that the crystal had a flaw that made it worthless, which eventually convinced her to take the gift. Around 160 BBY, Rwoh gave the bounty hunter Deva Lompop the flawed sunstone as payment for information about the scientist Florinda Jackard, whom she was searching for and whom Lompop had also been hired to find. The bounty hunter was pleased with the compensation for the payment she would have lost out on, unaware of the flaw in the crystal. After Rwoh and her companions left Lompop, she explained to the Jedi Knight Indara and the Force-sensitive operative Ty Yorrick that the crystal she had received from the Keepers of Dytrew was worthless, which was why she did not mind parting with it. Yorrick was surprised and thanked Rwoh for duping Lompop. In the current Star Wars canon, sunstone first appeared in Cataclysm, a novel written by Lydia Kang and published in 2023 as part of the Star Wars: The High Republic multimedia project's Phase II. In the Star Wars Legends continuity, a sun-stone was a type of jewel first mentioned in Lando Calrissian and the Starcave of ThonBoka, a 1983 novel by L. Neil Smith and the third and final entry in the series Star Wars: The Lando Calrissian Adventures.Lando Calrissian and the Starcave of ThonBoka Its first full appearance was in The New Rebellion, a 1996 novel by Kristine Kathryn Rusch.The New Rebellion In the real world, a sunstone is a type of gemstone used in jewelry. *The High Republic: Cataclysm *The Acolyte: Wayseeker Category:Crystals Category:E'ronoh culture