50276
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Mikdanyell_Guh%27rantt
Mikdanyell Guh'rantt
19256

|gender=Male |pronouns=new |height= |mass= |hair= |feathers= |eyes=Metallic green |skin=Blue |cyber= |families=new |parents=new |partners=new |siblings=new |children=new |affiliation=Mos Eisley government |masters= |apprentices= }} Mikdanyell Guh'rantt was a male Rodian who served as mayor of Mos Eisley on the Outer Rim world of Tatooine during the early years of the Galactic Civil War. Mayor Guh'rantt was deeply connected to the criminal underground of the city but was eventually exposed by Imperial Navy Chief Moradmin Bast. Despite this, Guh'rantt continued to serve as mayor following Chief Bast's death during the Battle of Yavin in 0 BBY. It was during this time that Mayor Guh'rantt actually struggled to improve Mos Eisley's reputation as a hive of scum and villainy by improving the city's police force and combating criminal elements with limited resources. During his time in office, Mayor Guh'rantt worked with and gave a spacer a Key to the City for uncovering Jabba Desilijic Tiure's diabolical plot to provoke Tusken Raider attacks on Mos Eisley. In addition to protecting his city from other hostile entities, Guh'rantt was also interested in the planet's history, although he was mistaken about several historical events. Mikdanyell Guh'rantt was a male Rodian politician who prided himself on knowing the history of Tatooine, a desert planet in the galaxy's Outer Rim Territories. He became mayor of the large Tatooinian spaceport city known as Mos Eisley sometime prior to the year 0 BBY. As mayor, he worked at the city's commerce guild hall, a building which was used for the daily operations of Mos Eisley's local government. Mos Eisley had a reputation for being a cesspool of criminal activity, and Guh'rantt was not immune from it. Mayor Guh'rantt became deeply connected to the city's criminal underground, and was eventually uncovered by Imperial Chief Moradmin Bast. However, the Human Imperial officer was soon killed during the Battle of Yavin when Rebel pilots destroyed the Death Star he was occupying. Despite being revealed as a crook, Guh'rantt continued to serve as mayor of the city after the Battle of Yavin. Around that time, a man named Crix Yarrow served as the aide to the mayor. An affable figure, Guh'rantt was always eager to promote his city and show off his supposed knowledge of Tatooine's history to inquiring spacers. He believed Mos Eisley to be a city full of life and character, and resented its perception as a "wretched hive of scum and villainy." He believed that while the streets of Mos Eisley could be considered scary, they were no more dangerous than those of any other city in the galaxy. Although he was knowledgeable, Guh'rantt was mistaken about certain historic events on Tatooine. He was skeptical of the rumors purporting that a Jedi Knight sliced the arm off an Aqualish patron in Chalmun's Spaceport Cantina with a lightsaber. Guh'rantt believed that the Jedi Knights had not been around since the days of the Old Republic, and that it would not make sense for one to be on Tatooine, much less in a cantina in Mos Eisley. However, the rumors were indeed true, for the legendary Jedi Master known as Obi-Wan Kenobi had in fact attacked the Aqualish criminal known as Ponda Baba. Guh'rantt also confused the Dim-U monks with the B'omarr Monks by saying that it was the Dim-U who would remove their brains for enlightenment, and place them in brain walkers. He also erroneously claimed that the Dim-U once used Jabba's Palace as a monastery, when in fact the B'omarr did. However, he did correctly point out to inquiring spacers that the Dim-U worshiped banthas, a beast which thrived on the planet. In addition to sharing his pride and knowledge of Mos Eisley to visitors, Mayor Guh'rantt spent time helping spacers find work that best suited their skill set. One such spacer was directed to Guh'rantt by a Human woman named Trehla Keelo, a citizen of Mos Eisley who would often guide visitors through the streets of the city. When the spacer spoke with Guh'rantt in the commerce guild hall, the mayor asked the individual to meet with several people throughout Mos Eisley to get a better idea of what type of profession to pursue. These people included the entertainer Anetia Kah'ryn, the artisan Alduq Besene, the soldier Purvis Arrison and the scout Entha Kandela. Another one was a Zabrak named Peawp R'dawc, who was the owner of a bodyguard agency. R'dawc, trained in the art of hand-to-hand combat, wanted to see if a job as a brawler would be best suited for the spacer. To that end, the spacer worked a series of bodyguard jobs for R'dawc, including protecting a local businessman, a Bith named Otwi Opawl. }} In 1 ABY, Guh'rantt eventually found himself in the unfortunate position of being indebted to Jabba Desilijic Tiure, the ruthless Hutt crime lord who headed a large criminal empire from Tatooine. In retaliation for the late payments, Jabba developed a plan to trick the Tusken Raiders into attacking Mos Eisley. One of Jabba's minions, the Trandoshan bounty hunter Bossk, recruited a spacer to attack Tuskens around Mos Eisley so they would think the Mos Eisley militia was responsible. Although a Tusken berserker discovered the truth, he was quickly assassinated by the spacer and Jabba's plan eventually worked out. In the meantime, Guh'rantt was planning on putting down a speeder deed as his next payment, but it was stolen from him. However, the mayor was in luck. The Twi'lek majordomo known as Bib Fortuna was eying a spacer as a potential servant for Jabba's criminal empire. Bib Fortuna told this spacer to help the mayor find a way to repay Jabba. The spacer ultimately agreed, and headed to the Mos Eisley's commerce guild hall to meet with the mayor. Guh'rantt explained the circumstances surrounding his debt and the unfortunate speeder deed theft to the spacer. He also insinuated that he could not embezzle public funds to pay off his debt, due to the fact that the city was already experiencing many problems. However, Mayor Guh'rantt believed that if the spacer would help carry out a few public services, it would free up enough funds to repay Jabba. With that said, the spacer agreed to help the mayor, not so much out of altruism, but rather out of a desire to curry favor with Bib Fortuna and Jabba. Some of the tasks the spacer needed to carry out involved animal control, eliminating hoodlums, and controlling the ever-pervasive threat of Tusken Raider attacks. The spacer worked with several key city officials to solve these problems, including the Twi'lek animal control officer Entha Kandela, Human veteran marksman Purvis Arrison, and Peawp R'dawc. Most of these officials were cynical about the mayor's reluctance to increase their funding, but they were nonetheless willing to accept the spacer's services. Working with Entha Kandela, the spacer ran a census on the vermin infestation which was posing a threat to the public health. It turned out the the situation was indeed hazardous. Womp rats were spreading grunge fever, kreetles were weakening the soil around Mos Eisley, tempest rills were chewing insulation and power cables, and rockmites were laying eggs all around town. However, the spacer succeeded in helping Kandela, both by killing many of these creatures and by extracting samples for medical and pest control purposes. Working with Peawp R'dawc, the spacer oversaw the elimination of desert swoopers, moisture thieves, gunrunners, and even a hoard of error-prone B1-Series battle droids which crashed outside of town in a Class-6 escape pod. But perhaps the most important mission for R'dawc was the elimination of a dangerous Nikto criminal named Vaigon Shinn, who operated out of a bunker not far outside the city limits. Despite the dangers, the spacer successfully launched an attack on the bunker, killing the guards and their leader Vaigon Shinn, who operated as the gang's chief mugger. R'dawc was pleased, but lamented the fact that the mayor lacked the budget to hire the spacer full time. Meanwhile, the veteran marksman Purvis Arrison remained convinced that Mos Eisley was in a state of war against the indigenous Sand People, known as Tusken Raiders. While this was an exaggeration, Tuskens were indeed amassing in a small village just outside of Mos Eisley, colloquially referred to as Junktown. Arrison first tasked the spacer with performing reconnaissance of the village, and later ordered the spacer to do battle with them. The spacer killed at least fifteen Tuskens, thinning their ranks enough to keep Mos Eisley safe for the time being. In the meantime, the Twi'lek entertainer Anetia Kah'ryn discovered that Jabba was responsible for the Tusken Raider attacks on Mos Eisley. Mayor Guh'rantt was interested, though not necessarily surprised, to learn that Jabba was in fact provoking Tusken attacks to advance his agenda. However, it was of little concern at the time, for thanks to the spacer, Guh'rantt now had the finances necessary to make the next debt payment to the Hutt crime lord. The mayor was also pleased to learn that by eliminating many criminal entities around the city, he was getting fewer complaints from the townsfolk. He also hoped that helping Entha Kandela with her animal control problems would keep her off his back for the time being. }} Later, Guh'rantt worked with Queen of Naboo Kylantha and other planetary governors to oversee the creation of a warden program to address the growing number of noise complaints caused by unscrupulous merchants. Mikdanyell Guh'rantt was a non-player character in the 2003 video game Star Wars Galaxies, a massively multiplayer online roleplaying game developed by Sony Online Entertainment and published by LucasArts, prior to its closure on December 15, 2011. Mikdanyell Guh'rantt was added to the game with the release of the "Publish 17," on May 26, 2005. He used to be involved in several quests related to specific player professions. The profession system was completely overhauled with the release of the "Publish 25," a.k.a. the "New Game Enhancements," on November 15, 2005, and Mikdanyell Guh'rantt's quests were revamped to be available for every new player. His last name was spelled "Guh'rantt" in Star Wars Galaxies, while The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia spells it "Guh'Rantt." The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia says that Chief Bast uncovered Mayor Guh'rantt as a crook, but this was never mentioned in the game. *Star Wars Galaxies: Rage of the Wookiees *Star Wars Galaxies: The Complete Guide: Prima Official Game Guide *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Bureaucrats Category:Historians Category:Mayors Category:Rodians Category:Tatooinians