50236
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/7-PrG_proton_grenade
7-PrG proton grenade
3731

The Merr-Sonn 7-PrG Proton Grenade, or Sequencer Charge, was a powerful explosive developed for structure demolition. The 7-PrG proton grenade was manufactured by Merr-Sonn Munitions, Inc. and were designed to breach starship hulls during boarding actions. They could also be used for large-scale demolition projects. 7-PrG grenades were cylindrical devices with a flared base. The base of the 7-PrG contained a magnetic plate that allowed the grenade to be affixed to a surface. The powerful proton core was held in the main cylinder of the grenade, which was primed by twisting the arming mechanism at the base of the explosive. Pressing the activation plunger started the grenade's timer; the 7-PrG utilized a dial timer that allowed a maximum of twenty minutes to elapse before the grenade exploded. Disarming the device required pressing the twist plunger release at the top of the grenade. The power of the 7-PrG's proton core was comparable to a thermal detonator, so it was important that the grenade had a two-stage activation sequence to prevent accidental detonation. The 7-PrG was used by the Rebel Alliance strike team on Endor to destroy the shield bunker there. This brought down the protective shield over the Death Star II, allowing Alliance starfighters to penetrate its interior and destroy its power generator during the climactic Battle of Endor. They were placed in the control room and in the generator room.Star Wars: Rogue Squadron III: Rebel Strike 7-PrG proton grenades first appeared in the film Star Wars: Episode VI Return of the Jedi. *Star Wars: Rogue Squadron III: Rebel Strike *Rebellion 13 *Rebellion 14 *Return of the Jedi: The National Public Radio Dramatization *The Essential Guide to Weapons and Technology *Star Wars: Behind the Magic *Star Wars: Rogue Squadron III: Rebel Strike: The Official Nintendo Player's Guide Category:Grenades Category:Merr-Sonn Munitions, Inc. products Category:Proton demolitions