50610
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Y-4_Transport
Y-4 Transport
6842

The Y-4 Transport was a military transport manufactured by Incom Corporation. Quite common during the Zsinj campaign, they came to be so synonymous with Zsinj's Raptors that the vessels were called Y-4 Raptors in common conversation. thumb|left|Side view of the transport A sturdy ship that was designed to move quickly and hit hard, the Y-4 was equipped with a pair of retractable wings for emergency braking and increased maneuverability. Combined with meter-thick heat-dispersive armor and multiple layers of spray-on heat ablative coatings, the Y-4 could make full use of its impressive speed without having to slow down due to atmospheric friction. For this reason, the Y-4 was popular with Zsinj's Raptors for quick and quiet insertion onto a planet's surface. Just under thirty meters long, the Y-4 had a small command crew of just one pilot and two gunners, and was capable of carrying forty troops, four AT-STs, and several PX-10 CAVws and military speeder bikes; folding assault ramps allowed both soldiers and vehicles to depart in seconds. A modest weapons platform, the Y-4 was armed with a pair of dual laser cannons and a concussion missile launcher for defense, and was able to provide copious cover for its occupants as they disembarked. The Y-4 was available in a civilian model which lacked weaponry and armor plating, and was slower than the military version, though was still considered fast enough to perform as a courier. While it was capable of hyperspace travel, the threat of pirates and other hazards forced many owners to upgrade their civilian Y-4s with weaponry for protection. Civilian-grade Y-4s were widely used as maintenance and supply vessels by Warlord Zsinj. thumb|left|180px|Y-4 Raptor [[:Category:Technical drawing images|schematics]] Introduced to the Galactic Empire shortly before Incom's nationalization, the Y-4 never saw widespread use due to Imperial prejudice against the alleged Rebel sympathies of its creators. The Rebel Alliance used a Y-4 at a rendezvous point on Fest. Three captured All Terrain Personal Transports escaped aboard the transport.Star Wars: Rogue Squadron The New Republic captured several Y-4 transports in their campaign against Zsinj, and Han Solo even appropriated one of their transponder codes for use on the Millennium Falcon. *Star Wars Missions 20: Total Destruction *Star Wars: Rogue Squadron *X-Wing: Iron Fist *X-Wing: Solo Command *The Courtship of Princess Leia *The Essential Guide to Vehicles and Vessels *Cracken's Threat Dossier *Star Wars Encyclopedia *The New Essential Guide to Vehicles and Vessels *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Incom Corporation products Category:Starship classes of the Galactic Empire Category:Troop transport starship classes