50647
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Hidden_Rebel_Base
Hidden Rebel Base
11296

|destroyed= |type= |location=Rhaler's Bastion, Corellia |interest= |rebuilt= |builder= |height= |width= |affiliation=Alliance to Restore the Republic }} }} The Hidden Rebel Base, also known as the Rebel Hideout, on the planet Corellia was one of the locations the Alliance High Command relocated to after the Battle of Yavin while looking for a more secret location. It was also used to recruit new Rebel combatants and task Rebel spacers to assist with the Alliance's efforts. }} thumb|left|280px|Aerial view of the base. The Hidden Rebel Base was a hidden "command and control" center for Rebel operations. It was located on the planet Corellia, in a remote area of the mountains known as Rhaler's Bastion. The Rebel Hideout comprised several buildings, including the main command center and six smaller buildings. An underground detainment facility was located beneath the base and accessible though one of the smaller buildings on the surface. The base also contained two small landing pads for shuttles. thumb|right|200px|The defensive system of the base. The base was surrounded by a tall wall and defended by several laser turrets. The Rebels stationed here were on constant alert for Imperial troops and patrolled the nearby mountains. In addition, the underground prison was guarded by a contingent of Rebel commandos, Rebel troopers, Rebel Desert Troopers, Rebel Prison Troopers Rebel SpecForce troopers, blastromech droids, prison battle droids and tracker droids. The Rebel Hideout was established by Princess Leia Organa after the Battle of Yavin with the support of independent-minded Corellians eager to oppose the Empire and provide a shelter for the Rebel Alliance. The base was initially used as a temporary camp during the construction of Echo Base on the planet Hoth but it then became the main Rebel base of operations. From there, Leia Organa made plans to take advantage of the Alliance victory at the Battle of Yavin. thumb|left|250px|Rebel troops in the base. After the Battle of Yavin, many of the heroes of the Rebellion worked from within the Hidden Rebel Base, including Admiral Ackbar, Princess Leia Organa, Wedge Antilles, Qual'do Herm and the droids C-3PO and R2-D2. They often recruited Rebel combatants to assist the Alliance in critical missions such as the rescue of the Rebel spy Simo Oron, the infiltration of a secret Imperial research center on Corellia, or the recovery of stolen X-wing starfighters from an Imperial Base. Another Rebel officer present there around the same time was Teslo Ten'Doora. In 1 ABY, Imperial spy Finn Darktrin infiltrated the Rebel Alliance and visited the base, but decided not to reveal its location to the Empire.Star Wars Galaxies: The Ruins of Dantooine Also in 1 ABY, an Alliance shuttle crashed near the Corellian city of Tyrena during the Empire Day festivities. From data recovered in the crash site, an Imperial agent working for Emperor's Hand Mara Jade discovered the base's location. The Empire learned that there was a prison facility within the base where six Imperial officers were being held. Mara Jade then tasked a group of Imperial operatives to raid the base and rescue the prisoners. The Imperial agents did so successfully, and were awarded the Imperial Badge of Meritorious Service for this accomplishment. a large number of Rebel soldiers, pilots and officers were killed during the assault, including trooper Jorel Sherrol, pilot Lancer Sair, Major Caleb Shoma, desert trooper Falen Buir, SpecForce trooper Titus Froud, and the Jedi Chard Fristena. The Hidden Rebel Base appeared in the 2003 video game Star Wars Galaxies, a massively multiplayer online role-playing game developed by Sony Online Entertainment and published by LucasArts, prior to its closure on December 15, 2011. In the game, the Rebel Hideout was the location of several famous Rebel characters who gave a series of quests to Rebel players as part of the so-called "Rebel Theme Park." This questline was completely revamped with the release of the "Chapter 6," on May 22, 2007, but the update did not change anything for the base itself. The underground detention facility was added to the Rebel base with the "Game Update 11," published on June 23, 2009, and was present in the game during the Empire Day events of 2009, 2010 and 2011. *Star Wars Galaxies: The Ruins of Dantooine *Star Wars Galaxies: Jump to Lightspeed *Star Wars Galaxies: An Empire Divided Quick Reference Guide *Star Wars Galaxies: The Total Experience: Prima Official Game Guide *Star Wars Galaxies: The Complete Guide: Prima Official Game Guide *Star Wars Galaxies Memory Book Category:Alliance to Restore the Republic military bases Category:Corellia locations