50843
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Falleen%27s_Fist
Falleen's Fist
8951

Falleen's Fist was the personal skyhook of Black Sun leader Prince Xizor. Unlike the Emperor, who kept his most prized possessions aboard his skyhook, Xizor preferred to keep his best treasures on the ground within his palace. The skyhook was armed with Xizor's personal navy, complete with corvettes, frigates, and hundreds of rebuilt surplus fighters. The command center was a deck surrounded by transparisteel plate, allowing the commander a 360-degree unimpeded view of the vicinity space. In 3.5 ABY Dash Rendar, Lando Calrissian, Chewbacca and Luke Skywalker infiltrated the Black Sun palace in order to rescue Leia held captive by Xizor. On their way to the landing pad to complete their rescue and escape, Lando, in a moment of pure inspiration, threw a thermal detonator in a garbage chute, thus dooming the palace. The chaos helped the rebels continue their escape, as Xizor took his personal express turbolift to reach the top and escape with Virago to his skyhook. On his way he ordered his navy to destroy or capture the Millennium Falcon which would carry the infiltrators, thus completing his planned demise of Skywalker. thumb|left|250px|The Executor unleashes turbolaser fire on Falleen's Fist During the Battle over Coruscant, Darth Vader commanded the skyhook to be destroyed by the Executor because Xizor was attempting to kill Luke Skywalker who was aboard the Millennium Falcon with his StarVipers. The skyhook was destroyed, killing Xizor in the process. In the video game Shadows of the Empire, a different version of the battle takes place, giving Dash Rendar a major role. While a Star Destroyer is present and bombarding the station, Dash actually flies into the Skyhook with his Outrider, mirroring the Battle of Endor, and takes out the core inside. The skyhook appears in some cards of the 1996 Topps Star Wars: Shadows of the Empire series, in a similar appearance to that of the video game, with four long hollow shafts radiating from a cylindrical core towards all directions, into which Dash Rendar actually flies. This appearance is followed also in the Star Wars Galaxies Trading Card Game The comic Shadows of the Empire 6 deviates from this depiction, where the skyhook appears as a red space station whose main body is saucer-shaped. *Star Wars: Shadows of the Empire novel *Star Wars: Shadows of the Empire abridged audiobook *Star Wars: Shadows of the Empire junior novelization *Star Wars: Shadows of the Empire video game *Shadows of the Empire 6 *The Essential Guide to Vehicles and Vessels *The Secrets of Star Wars: Shadows of the Empire *Shadows of the Empire Sourcebook |cards= }} *Star Wars: Shadows of the Empire Limited Collector's Edition *Star Wars: The Art of the Brothers Hildebrandt *Star Wars: Behind the Magic *Coruscant and the Core Worlds *Starships of the Galaxy, Saga Edition *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Coruscant orbital locations Category:Skyhooks Category:Starships of Black Sun