50982
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Carithlee
Carithlee
7877

Carithlee was a starfighter pilot who served in the elite Rogue Squadron at some point by 7 ABY before leaving the unit. When a temporary Rogue Squadron was formed during the genuine Rogues' unsanctioned campaign against Imperial leader Ysanne Isard on the planet Thyferra, Carithlee was chosen to fill in the replacement unit's ranks. Once members of the original Rogue Squadron resumed their duties, Carithlee and most of the other pilots of the ersatz unit returned to their previous assignments with the New Republic. thumb|right|250px|Carithlee was a member of Rogue Squadron. Carithlee was a starfighter pilot and a member of the elite Rebel AllianceStar Wars: Rogue Squadron and New Republic unit Rogue Squadron at some point during the Galactic Civil War against the Galactic Empire. By 7 ABY,The Essential Reader's Companion dates the events of X-Wing: Wraith Squadron to 7 ABY. Carithlee, considered one of the squadron's veterans, was no longer with the Rogues and instead served with another unit. After the galactic capital of Coruscant was liberated from Imperial control,X-Wing: Wedge's Gamble the Imperial ruler, Ysanne Isard, retreated to the planet Thyferra. Isard's departure prompted the entire Rogue Squadron, led by Commander Wedge Antilles, to resign their commissions with the New Republic to wage an unsanctioned war against the Imperial leader.X-Wing: The Krytos Trap In the Rogues' absence, the New Republic government opted to form an ersatz Rogue Squadron, believing that the very existence of some incarnation of Rogue Squadron was vital for maintaining morale among the general populace during that period of the war. The newly created Rogue Squadron was led by Lieutenant Derek Klivian. Carithlee, alongside several other former Rogues and some new recruits, was chosen for inclusion into Klivian's unit. The squadron served together for approximately six months.According to X-Wing: The Bacta War, four months elapsed between Corran Horn's escape from the Executor-class Star Dreadnought Lusankya&mdash;which occurred shortly before the beginning of the Bacta War&mdash;and his marriage to Mirax Terrik at the end of the campaign. X-wing: The Bacta War also states that Rogue Squadron remained on Thyferra for "a couple of months" to help train the newly created Thyferran Aerospace Defense Force. thumb|left|250px|The two Rogue Squadrons met in the skies of Coruscant. After the genuine Rogue Squadron successfully defeated Isard, its pilots were reinstated as a New Republic military unit, with the Rogues' return being staged as a public event. Carithlee and the rest of the ersatz squadron flew their X-wing starfighters and greeted Antilles and his pilots upon their return to Coruscant. In order to avoid confusion with call signs, Klivian temporarily renamed his unit to Red Squadron. Carithlee and the rest of Red Squadron then engaged the Rogues in a friendly competition of precision flying above the crowded Imperial Plaza, impressing the onlookers with elaborate stunts, such as the Three Diamonds Parade Formation. The two squadrons then landed among the cheering crowd at the plaza, where the pilots of both units greeted each other. During this time, Antilles toyed with an idea of creating a new starfighter-commando unit, which would eventually be dubbed Wraith Squadron. Klivian provided Antilles with personnel files of his temporary squadron for inspection and possible inclusion into the new squadron. However, Carithlee was not chosen by Antilles. Instead, when the ersatz Rogue Squadron was disbanded, Carithlee returned to the pilot's previous unit. Carithlee was able to pilot a T-65 X-wing starfighter and was considered a veteran member of Rogue Squadron, an elite starfighter unit, by 7 ABY. However, during the two Rogue Squadrons' friendly face-off above Coruscant, Wedge Antilles was unimpressed with the flying skills of Carithlee and the pilot's squadron mates. Carithlee appeared briefly in the 1998 novel X-Wing: Wraith Squadron, the fifth volume in the Star Wars: X-Wing series, by Aaron Allston. *X-Wing: Wraith Squadron Category:Individuals of unspecified gender Category:Individuals of unspecified species Category:Pilots Category:Rogue Squadron personnel