51124
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Sab_Rufo
Sab Rufo
5760

Sab Rufo was an Inner Rim astronomical object that was the site of the Academy at Sab Rufo. At one point during the reign of the Galactic Empire, Major Herrit of Imperial Intelligence sent a communique, addressed to Dark Lord of the Sith Darth Vader, in which they erroneously claimed that neither the academy nor Sab Rufo itself existed. In response, Vader's aide Captain Solistein claimed that the Sith Lord himself had visited Sab Rufo. Sab Rufo was a celestial body located in the Inner Rim's Sab Rufo system. thumb|right|250px|According to Captain Solistein, Darth Vader (pictured) at some point visited Sab Rufo. Sab Rufo was the site of the Academy at Sab Rufo, at which the sentientologist Obo Rin claimed to hold the position of Director of Sentientology. At some point by the time of the reign of the Galactic Empire, Major Herrit of Imperial Intelligence performed a background check on Rin, whom the Empire had commissioned to author a reference work detailing the various sentient species of the galaxy. The major subsequently sent communique #46553.27h, addressed to the Galactic Emperor Palpatine's apprentice, Dark Lord of the Sith Darth Vader, in which Herrit criticized Rin and erroneouslyThe Star Wars Planets Collection claimed that the Academy at Sab Rufo&mdash;or indeed Sab Rufo itself&mdash;did not in fact exist. In a reply communique, Vader's aide Captain Solistein dismissed Herrit's "unsolicited opinions" and, in response to the latter's criticisms of Rin's qualifications, stated that Vader had not ordered Herrit to perform a background check on the sentientologist. In addition, Solistein noted that Vader himself had visited Sab Rufo. thumb|right|200px|Map depicting Sab Rufo that was published in Voyages SF 13. Sab Rufo was introduced in Galaxy Guide 4: Alien Races, a 1989 sourcebook authored by Troy Denning for use with West End Games' Star Wars: The Roleplaying Game. "Twinkle, Twinkle Little Star, How I Wonder Where We Are," a 1990 roleplaying game source article published in the thirteenth issue of the Voyages SF magazine, placed Sab Rufo, as well as the planet Branth and the Colu, Endor, Harridan, New Bakstre, and Solaest systems, in the Fringe Territories. The adventure is considered noncanonical with respect to the Star Wars Legends continuity. The 2009 reference book The Essential Atlas placed the Sab Rufo system, and thereby Sab Rufo itself, in grid square N-8. *Galaxy Guide 4: Alien Races *Planets of the Galaxy, Volume One *The Star Wars Planets Collection Category:Astronomical objects in the Inner Rim