51291
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Teguta_Lusat
Teguta Lusat
5026

Teguta Lusat was a city on Rafa IV that served as the colonial capital of the Rafa system during the Imperial Era. Located in the shadows of the massive, world-spanning ruins of the vanished Sharu civilization, Teguta Lusat was badly damaged during the "Sharu Awakening" of 3 BBY, when the activation of the Mindharp by colonial governor Duttes Mer caused the Sharu ruins to open and reveal vast stretches of ancient cityscape. Although most of the city's Human residents fled after the return of the Sharu, Teguta Lusat remained as a center for those that remained. One of the only major settlements on the planet Rafa IV in the Centrality, Teguta Lusat was a small, primarily Human town awkwardly wedged in between the massive, world-spanning ruins of the ancient Sharu species. The Sharu buildings were some of the largest artificial structures known in the galaxy&mdash;in the little space that remained, Teguta Lusat was formed out of narrow, oddly angled boardwalked streets and Human-scale dwellings and businesses built up against titanic Sharu walls. As the center of a thriving colony, Teguta Lusat was relatively bustling, with many cantinas and bars, and had a spaceport located a short hoverbus ride from city center. Although predominantly Human, Teguta Lusat had a large population of the Rafa system's native Toka, who were treated as little more than domestic animals by many of the settlers. By 4 BBY, Teguta Lusat held the status of the capital settlement of the Imperial-run colony in the Rafa system governed by Duttes Mer. In 4 BBY, Mer&mdash;working along with Sorcerer of Tund Rokur Gepta&mdash;lured smuggler Lando Calrissian to Teguta Lusat to force him to track down the Mindharp, a powerful Sharu artifact. Along with Vuffi Raa, a droid of obscure origin programmed to serve Mer, Calrissian departed for Rafa V to search for the Mindharp and subsequently disappeared for four months, before suddenly reappearing out of nowhere in the streets of Teguta Lusat, having been instantly transported back there after retrieving the artifact. Mer had Calrissian imprisoned and took the Mindharp for himself, believing that playing the "Ultimate Instrument of Music" would allow him to take control of the minds of all within the system. However, he found instead that the Mindharp was the key to restoring the Sharu civilization, by reverting the primitive Toka back to their highly intelligent former forms. Mer was killed upon activating the Mindharp, and Teguta Lusat itself was heavily damaged as the massive Sharu structures surrounding it opened to reveal kilometer upon kilometer of highly advanced cityscape. Most Human colonists elected to leave after the "Sharu Awakening," but the majority that stayed&mdash;mainly researchers, scientists and the poor&mdash;stayed in the remnants of Teguta Lusat, reduced greatly from its former self. Teguta Lusat appeared in Lando Calrissian and the Mindharp of Sharu, a novel written by L. Neil Smith and released in 1983. *Lando Calrissian and the Mindharp of Sharu Category:Capital cities