51226
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Coruscant_mercenary
Coruscant mercenary
3872

The Coruscant mercenaries were a band of Human, Ishi Tib, Nikto, and Rodian assassins active on the planet of Coruscant, capital of the Galactic Republic, during the decade leading up to the Clone Wars. The Coruscant mercenaries, active in Galactic City circa 32 BBY, were hired by the Trade Federation to abduct Padmé Amidala, the reigning Queen of Naboo during the organization's invasion of her homeworld. In addition to taking the Queen hostage, the assassins were to kill her protectors, two Knights of the Jedi Order. Planning their attack carefully, the mercenaries split into two teams; the fist team ambushed Queen Amidala and her security captain, Quarsh Panaka, who were to reunite with Senator Palpatine at the Senate Building. Captain Panaka successfully defended the queen, although she was briefly captured by the mercenaries and assailed by hover cannons. Panaka liberated her from her temporary prison in the undercity and prepared to return to the surface with her. However, the Sun Guard leader of these mercenaries, who wore a black hooded warrior's uniform and was armed with a vibro-ax, confronted the queen as she was about to leave the Underworld. Captain Panaka skillfully fought this final assassin and killed him with his R-65 heavy blaster. During this attack, a second team of mercenaries confronted Jedi Master Qui-Gon Jinn and his Padawan Obi-Wan Kenobi as they escorted Anakin Skywalker to the Jedi Temple. Defending themselves, the Jedi slew all their assailants and were then escorted to the Temple by Master of the Order Mace Windu. All of the mercenaries used various lethal methods including a range of hand-to-hand and pistol combat. Others utilized thermal detonators and most of the assassins were killed by the Jedi's lightsabers or by Captain Panaka's variety of blasters. *Star Wars: Episode I The Phantom Menace video game *Star Wars: Episode I Jedi Power Battles Category:Bounty hunters Category:Coruscant organizations Category:Mercenaries Category:Trade Federation organizations