51471
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Rhinnal_State_Medical_Academy
Rhinnal State Medical Academy
3731

The Rhinnal State Medical Academy, also known as the University of Rhinnal or the Rhire Medical Academy, was located in Rhire and considered one of the foremost schools for medicine in the Galactic Empire. It worked closely with Athakam Medtech to research medical technologies. 2-1B often pulled medical information from the Academy's database during the reconstruction of Darth Vader. The database however, contained no information regarding Sith alchemy. The institution released an etiological report concerning the middle-class districts on Coruscant and specified 10 species that were at risk of being affected by pollution-induced diseases. The species mentioned in the report were Abinyshi, Bovorian, Chadra-Fan, Mrissi, Mrlssi, Pa'lowick, Quor'sav, Rishii, Shashay, and Vors. The diseases that were discussed in the report included lungrot, dioxo-brionchiectasis shock, silicalung, and hemorrhagic molting. The report called for planetary reform in pollution standards, especially in the public transit and industrial quarters and called for the phasing out of older air buses that employed propellant-based lateral thrusters and replaced them with more modern units that use directional-repulsorfield steering. As a result of this report, one family physician, Dr. Rispi Lacendad, encouraged his Chadra-Fan patients to don breathmasks when outdoors. When the 2-1B surgical droids were been designed, their prototype knowledge matrices were sent to the Rhinnal State Medical Academy. The finest doctors were engaged to refine the matrices programming even further.The Essential Guide to Droids *Clone Wars Gambit: Stealth *Death Troopers *Millennium Falcon *Shadows of the Empire Sourcebook *Gundark's Fantastic Technology: Personal Gear *The Essential Guide to Weapons and Technology *Platt's Smugglers Guide *The Essential Guide to Droids *Star Wars Roleplaying Game Core Rulebook *Star Wars Roleplaying Game Revised Core Rulebook *Coruscant and the Core Worlds *The New Essential Guide to Weapons and Technology *Star Wars: Darth Vader: A 3-D Reconstruction Log *Star Wars: Force and Destiny Core Rulebook Category:Academies Category:Medical schools Category:Rhinnal locations