51540
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Progga
Progga
9608

Progga, also known as Progga the Hutt, was a minor Hutt crime lord and pirate from the edge of the Unknown Regions. He was active during the last years of the Galactic Republic. In 27 BBY, Progga ambushed the smuggling freighter Bargain Hunter in the Outer Rim with his ship, hoping to steal the Bargain Hunter cargo of rare furs and firegems. Progga gave chase when the Bargain Hunter fled to hyperspace and followed the freighter to a remote star system in the Unknown Regions. However, when Progga finally trapped the Bargain Hunter in the system, Picket Force Two of the Chiss Ascendancy Expansionary Fleet attacked both parties. Progga's starship attempted to engage the new interlopers, but the Chiss forces proved too powerful, and Progga was killed as his ship was destroyed . thumb|right|300px|Thrawn and Jorj Car'das, who were involved in the skirmish that killed Progga the Hutt Originating from the fringes of the galaxy's Unknown Regions, Progga the Hutt was a temperamental pirate and minor crime lord who was active as of 67 BBY,Darth Plagueis during the waning days of the Galactic Republic. That year, kin of Progga and Drixo were seen by visitors of High Port Space Center on the Muun homeworld of Muunilinst alongside envoys from Yagai, Gravlex Med and Kalee. Around the same time, both Hutts both befriended Hego Damask of the InterGalactic Banking Clan, and they made successful but costly investments for themselves with the Muun on the planet Comra&mdash;it resulted in Damask offering Gardulla the Hutt an investment in Tatooine so she could fund a podrace. During the years following the Battle of Naboo, Progga formed a rivalry with Drixo. In 27 BBY, Progga and his crew, aboard Progga's starship, attempted to hijack the smuggling freighter Bargain Hunter in the Outer Rim Territories. Drixo hired the Bargain Hunter, captained by the Human Dubrak Qennto, to transport a cargo of rare furs and firegems to Comra. With Progga's starship firing on the smuggling freighter, the Bargain Hunter made a short jump into hyperspace, hoping to flee Progga's ambush. However, the Hutt pirate pursued the Bargain Hunter and continued his assault once the freighter had exited hyperspace. Desperate to escape, the Bargain Hunter made another jump into hyperspace, and Progga again followed the smugglers. During the resulting four-hour jump, both starships left the Outer Rim Territories, passed through the region known as Wild Space, and exited in the edges of the Unknown Regions. After leaving hyperspace Progga tracked the Bargain Hunter to a nearby star system, where the freighter was trapped, its hyperdrive unresponsive. Because the system was the only one in the area, Progga came to the conclusion that Qennto had fled to this system because the smuggler had hidden a treasure hoard there, believing no one would find it. The Hutt hailed the Bargain Hunter, demanding to know where Qennto had stashed his treasures; unbeknownst to Progga, the Bargain Hunter, in its haste to escape, had made a random jump and had emerged in that particular system by happenstance. As Qennto tried to convince Progga that he did not have any base in the system, both ships were hit by large Conner nets, which released electromagnetic pulses designed to disable the vessels. While the attack knocked the Bargain Hunter out of commission, Progga's starship was built to resist the Conner nets, and the Hutt's starship turned to confront the beings who had launched the nets&mdash;Picket Force Two, composed of a cruiser and three fighter escorts of the Chiss Ascendancy's Expansionary Fleet. Progga ordered his crew to open fire on the Chiss cruiser, the Springhawk, and Chiss Force Commander Mitth'raw'nuruodo "Thrawn" had his cruiser and two of his fighter escorts return fire. The Chiss numbers proved too overwhelming for the Hutt, and the pirate's starship was destroyed after six minutes of fighting, killing Progga in the process. Progga was quick to anger and often did not think before acting; when attacked by the Chiss forces, instead of realizing that he was outnumbered and outgunned, Progga immediately engaged the Chiss, resulting in his death. Progga incorrectly assumed that the only reason Qennto would head to the Unknown Regions was because he had a secret treasure hoard there; it did not occur to Progga that Qennto had stumbled upon the star system by accident. The Hutt spoke Huttese but could understand Basic as well. Progga was created by author Timothy Zahn for his novel Outbound Flight, which was released in 2006. *Darth Plagueis *Outbound Flight *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia *The Essential Reader's Companion Category:Crime lords Category:Hutts Category:Individuals of unspecified gender Category:Individuals with he/him pronouns Category:Pirates