51503
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Beemon_Laboratories
Beemon Laboratories
4647

|founding=By 3956 BBYThe Knights of the Old Republic Campaign Guide dates the events of Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic to 3956 BBY. |dissolved= |affiliation= }} Beemon Laboratories, also known simply as Beemon, was a company active during the Jedi Civil War, fought between the Sith Empire and the Galactic Republic. During that time, Beemon produced high-end cybernetic implants. Their products included a type of implant known as the Beemon package and a prototype device known as an auxiliary brain. At the end of the Cold War, a period of unrest between the Republic and the reborn Sith Empire, the auxiliary brain was one of many items stolen from the Imperial treasury starship King's Ransom by a smuggler and two thieves named Vaz Traniff and Combo. Beemon Laboratories,While Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic only identified the producer of the package as "Beemon," Star Wars: The Old Republic revealed the company's name to be "Beemon Laboratories." also known as Beemon, was a company that was formed by the year 3956 BBY, during the Jedi Civil War, a conflict between the Sith Empire and the Galactic Republic. By that time, Beemon had produced the Beemon package, a cybernetic implant that could fetch prices up to 7,500 credits on the open market. By the Cold War, a period of unrest between the Republic and the reborn Sith Empire, Beemon Laborotories had produced a prototype device known as an auxiliary brain. Around the time that the Cold War escalated into the Galactic War, the prototype was stored in one of the vaults of the Imperial treasury starship King's Ransom. However, the brain was one of many valuable items looted from the ship when it was raided by a smuggler and two thieves named Vaz Traniff and Combo. During its existence, Beemon Laboratories produced high-quality technological devices such as the prototype auxiliary brain and the Beemon package, which sold for around 7,500 credits around the time of the Jedi Civil War. The Beemon package was a high-grade cybernetic implant that allowed organic beings equipped with it to have greater resistance to pain and stress. Beemon was first mentioned in Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic, a 2003 video game produced by BioWare. It was mentioned in the entry for the Beemon package, which gave no information about Beemon beyond the fact that they created the implant. Beemon was given the name "Beemon Laboratories" in the description for the Beemon Laboratories prototype auxiliary brain in "Heist of the Millennium," a quest for the smuggler class in Star Wars: The Old Republic, a MMORPG produced by BioWare in 2011. *Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic *Star Wars: The Old Republic *Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic: Prima's Official Strategy Guide Category:Technology companies