51627
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Hannser
Hannser
3466

Hannser was a male officer who served within the New Republic Defense Fleet. During the Black Fleet Crisis of 16 ABY, he was part of Colonel Ejagga Pakkpekatt's task force that was sent to locate and gather information regarding the Teljkon Vagabond. During this mission, he commanded the gunship Marauder. During the Yuuzhan Vong War, Captain Hannser served as the commanding officer of the Republic-class cruiser Far Thunder. Under the leadership of General Keyan Farlander, he and the warship under his command participated in the Battle of Obroa-skai, during which his vessel sustained heavy damage. Lobbying hard for an attempt to salvage the Far Thunder, he succeeded in his efforts, only to see the ship attacked by a party of Yuuzhan Vong coralskippers. While Twin Suns Squadron under the command of Jedi Jaina Solo was able to force the coralskippers into retreat, the Far Thunder was scuttled by the Lancer-class frigate Whip Hand. Evacuated to the frigate, Hannser was deeply wounded by the loss of his ship. Hannser was a competent captain and loyal to the New Republic and his crew, regardless of the vessel he was commanding. Although he valued his vessel highly, as in the case of the Far Thunder, he was sensible enough to realize when to abandon a foolish course of action. Hannser first appears in the Black Fleet Crisis novel Before the Storm, written by Michael P. Kube-McDowell and published in 1996. He later makes an appearance in the 2003 New Jedi Order novel The New Jedi Order: Destiny's Way by Walter Jon Williams. Although Hannser made no more canon appearances outside of these novels, his character was later given entries in the Star Wars Encyclopedia and the Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia. *Before the Storm *Shield of Lies *The New Jedi Order: Destiny's Way *Star Wars Encyclopedia *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Individuals of unspecified species Category:Males Category:New Republic Defense Fleet captains