52959
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Battle_of_Brigia_(Galactic_Civil_War)
Battle of Brigia (Galactic Civil War)
5969

The Battle of Brigia took place during the early years of the Galactic Civil War. The Rebel Alliance had learned of a new Imperial operation codenamed "Strike Fear", that would hit their base on Brigia as its first target. Knowing that the Rebel fleet stationed there was no match for the Imperial forces, the Alliance High Command organized an extensive evacuation of Rebel personnel stationed on the planet. All available transports were used to load up equipment and personnel, with the most important personnel boarding the shuttle group Arroyo. During the battle, X-wings from Red Squadron assisted by Y-wings from Gold Squadron were charged with protecting the shuttles. The Y-wings would provide close escort while the X-wings moved to engage any enemy fighters. Meanwhile Blue Squadron were responsible for protecting base equipment transports. Shortly after the EF76 Nebulon-B escort frigate Fugazi escaped into hyperspace, the evacuation was interrupted by the arrival of the Imperial-class Star Destroyer Invincible, which immediately began launching TIE Series starfighters. In the immediate volley, the corvette Mahan and transport group Rhoon were immediately overwhelmed and destroyed by the guns on the Invincible. The Rebels engaged the Imperial TIEs holding them off long enough for Arroyo and the remainder of the fleet to escape. However, Rebel losses were large. Wounded from the evacuation operation would later be transferred to the medical frigate Redemption by the corvette Korolev. Though losses had been substantial, the Rebel Alliance still maintained the capacity to strike, and their most senior personnel on Brigia were saved. *Star Wars: X-Wing *X-Wing: The Official Strategy Guide *X-Wing Collector's CD-ROM: The Official Strategy Guide *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia *The Essential Atlas Category:Battles of Brigia Category:Battles of Operation Strike Fear