53455
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Chronicles_of_the_Old_Republic
Chronicles of the Old Republic
5691

Chronicles of the Old Republic is a historical article that was written by LucasArts for the now defunct Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic II: The Sith Lords website. Its purpose was to provide background material for the game. The article documents the major events of the Old Republic era of galactic history, from the Great Hyperspace War to the opening skirmishes of the First Jedi Purge. It is notable because it contains backstory information concerning characters such as Revan, Kreia, and Atris that can be found in no other official source. The Chronicles are plagued by a number of minor continuity errors. At several points, the Chronicles directly contradict canon established by previous sources and thus the article's contents cannot be considered entirely reliable. It should be noted, however, that Leland Chee&mdash;the Database Content Administrator for Lucas Licensing and the keeper of the Holocron continuity database&mdash;has referred to the Chronicles as an officially sanctioned source on a number of occasions. The following continuity errors can be found in the Chronicles: *At some points Satal Keto is simply mentioned as "KETO" *Revan is described as a Jedi Master as early as the year 3963 BBY, but Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic states that he was a Jedi Knight during the Mandalorian Wars. **This is possibly explained in the comics, in which Revan is an unofficial and "honorary" master to a number of followers though this explanation is weak at best and does not explain why Jedi Masters who did not follow him would refer to him as such. *Revan is said to have constructed a "stronghold" and a "shadow enclave" on Malachor V prior to the Battle of Malachor V. In context, such statements could only be referring to the Trayus Academy, but Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic II: The Sith Lords states that the academy was built by the mysterious "True Sith" thousands of years before. It is possible that Revan made his own constructions about it. *The Jedi Enclave on Dantooine is said to be overseen by Master Vodo-Siosk Baas during the Mandalorian Wars, but that is impossible because numerous sources record that he died at the hand of his pupil, Exar Kun, during the Great Sith War. *The Jedi Exile is described as a Padawan when she rebelled against the Jedi Council and entered the Mandalorian Wars. After the war, she is described as a Jedi Knight, yet no explanation is provided to explain exactly how or when she attained that rank. It's possible that she was knighted along with many other followers of Revan by Revan himself. *Jolee Bindo is referred to as a Jedi Master, which contradicts Jolee's own account from KotOR in which he states that he never progressed beyond Padawan. However as his name is mentioned during the time of the First Jedi Purge, so it is possible he attained the title of Master by then. *The document states that, during Revan's capture, "the Jedi drag Revan from the throne after attempting a mind-wipe which was only partially successful"; however, all other sources state that Revan was captured after a fight, and his mind was wiped by the Jedi Council at a later point in time. *The article states that the "fierce Mandalorian warrior race begins the MANDALORIAN WAR by viciously and simultaneously attacking three quadrants of Republic space," but all other sources state that the Mandalorians invaded the Galactic Republic through three invasion corridors in adjacent sectors, not quadrants. Some details of the text are contradicted later by the lore of Star Wars: The Old Republic: according to that, and The Old Republic: Revan, the hero did not disappear while investigating Malachor V, but while trying to rediscover the Reconstituted Sith Empire, where he was captured. Furthermore, the text mentions that Canderous Ordo went to Dxun to become the new Mandalore, but Revan extrapolates on the events of his ascendance, with Revan helping him find the Mandalore's Mask on Rekkiad.The Old Republic: Revan Category:Reference works