53858
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Drea_Renthal
Drea Renthal
6243

Drea Renthal was a Human female who served as commander of a pirate fleet in the years prior to the Battle of Yavin. Drea was not typical of other pirates since she had a code of ethics that tried to minimize casualties. A self-styled businesswoman, she was only in the game for quick credits and would never lower her standards to deal in slaves. She was known to take hostages but always returned the hostage unharmed when the ransom was paid. Approximately 46 standard years old in the time of the Battle of Yavin, Drea Renthal was a big woman with squarish features and a strong alto voice. She always dressed in mismatched clothes, wearing garments that clashed with each other, along with various sets of armor. Her hair, done up short and spiky, was silver and gold. Her typical style of headwear included a flamboyant beret with a trailing orange feather. Though always dressed in outrageous fashion and a dangerous warrior to boot, people who knew her thought of her as extremely refined and intelligent. thumb|left|250px|Drea Renthal in her Y-wing In 3 BBY the Hutts hired Drea Renthal to protect Nal Hutta from an Imperial fleet that was going to make an example of the criminal moon of Nar Shaddaa by enacting Base Delta Zero. Though she had no orders to engage the Empire to protect the moon, she decided it was in her best interests to join the smuggler fleet and attack the Empire en masse when Admiral Greelanx arrived with the fleet. Her orders were to protect the Hutts, and although Greelanx had been paid off to leave Nal Hutta alone, there was still a chance that the Empire would attack Hutt interests on Nal Hutta. Because her fleet consisted mostly of larger capital ships and squadrons of Y-wings, she was instrumental to the smugglers by getting Greelanx to order a retreat. Her many accomplishments during the Battle of Nar Shaddaa included the crippling of the Renthal's Vigilance and the destruction of the Arrestor and Peacekeeper. Afterward, Drea salvaged the Vigilance and brought the Carrack into her own fleet, thereby increasing her firepower and her ability to make a quick credit. She rechristened the new ship Renthal's Vigilance. For a short time afterwards she became lover of Lando Calrissian, even though she was "old enough to be his mother," as Han Solo said when teasing Lando about his relationship. After Lando decided life aboard a pirate vessel was not his style, he picked up and went on his own way, breaking their relationship but remaining good friends. After their relationship ended, Drea dropped Lando off at Cloud City for a gambling tournament that changed his and Han Solo's lives forever, for this was the event where Han won from Lando the famous Millennium Falcon. In 1 BBY Drea Renthal encountered Lando Calrissian again a year down the road at what would be a most opportune time for a second meeting. While Lando embarked aboard the Queen of Empire for a week of gambling, he ran afoul of Boba Fett while turning his infamous charm on Fett's bounty, a Rebel named Bria Tharen. But as Lando assumed correctly, Drea Renthal targeted the luxury liner for a raid and dragged a large asteroid through the ship's hyperspace route to tug the Queen back into realspace. When her pirates raided the vessel, Drea and her mercenaries cornered Fett and forced him to let go both Lando (as her ex-lover) and Bria (who owed debt to Han Solo from the Battle of Nar Shaddaa), going so far as to pay him a hundred-thousand-credit bounty using credits stolen from passengers of the luxury liner. She did that good deed simply because she was still fond of the young gambler. *Renthal's Fist *Renthal's Vigilance *Too Late Now *Minestra *Golden Dreams *6 Y-wings *Z-95 Headhunters *The Hutt Gambit *Rebel Dawn *The Essential Chronology *The New Essential Guide to Characters *The New Essential Chronology *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia *The Essential Atlas Category:Females Category:Humans Category:Pirates