54152
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/New_Jedi_Order_Era
New Jedi Order Era
10385

|next= |TYA= |TC= |BRuu= |ARuu= |GrS= |conflict= |events=Rey Skywalker builds a new Jedi Order }} The galaxy entered an era marked by the foundation of a new Jedi Order by Rey Skywalker, the Jedi Master who finally ended the tyranny of the Sith along with her friends in the Resistance at the Battle of Exegol in 35 ABY. Rey had helped reconcile Ben Solo with his fall to the dark side of the Force that abruptly ended Luke Skywalker‘s initial attempt to rebuild the Jedi Order and gave rise to the First Order, the neo-Imperialist regime that violently ended the brief period of peace and democracy known as the New Republic Era. Following the First Order’s defeat, Rey also chose to carry on the Jedi legacy of the Skywalker family and rebuild the Jedi. thumb|left|250px|The flames of conflict in the Skywalker family spelled tragedy for Luke's attempt to rebuild the Jedi Order. For millennia, the Jedi Order served as the galaxy's guardians of peace and justice, becoming sentinels of the Galactic Republic and waged war against their sworn enemies, the Sith: former brothers and sisters of the Force. When the Sith destroyed each other from their own infighting for power, the Jedi emerged victorious and stands as the victor of their war. However, the Sith survived with only Darth Bane, who rebuilt the Sith under the Rule of Two, and secretly plotted the destruction of the Jedi Order and the Republic. Though the Jedi believed the Sith were extinct, Sith Lord Darth Sidious and his apprentice Darth Maul, revealed themselves to the Jedi Order, and finally Jedi Master Count Dooku of Serenno, joined Sidious and instigated the Clone Wars, causing turmoil across the galaxy. Days after his death, Dooku’s archenemy Jedi Knight Anakin Skywalker, who was prophesied to be the Chosen One, was seduced by the dark side of the Force in an desperate attempt to save his wife Padmé Amidala from a premonition of her death when she was pregnant with their child. In act of desperation for his wife and distrust to the Jedi Order, Anakin sworn his allegiance to Sidious and became Darth Vader. Together, they exterminated every Jedi across the galaxy to extinction and brought down the Republic, replacing it with the Galactic Empire. For decades, the Empire ruled the galaxy with an iron-fist until the years following the Battle of Yavin, the Rebellion ended the Sith’s time that ended the Republic's democracy and freedoms with help from Anakin’s son Luke, a farmer-turned-rebel trained by their friends and mentors Jedi Master Obi-Wan Kenobi and Grand Master Yoda who were survivors of the Jedi Purge. After saving his father, Skywalker heeded Yoda's advice to pass on the Jedi way to a new generation, including Ben Solo, the son of Han and Luke's younger twin sister Leia while the latter focused on helping the Rebellion transition into the New Republic. With the dawn of the new democracy, Luke searches the galaxy for remnants of the old order and train a new generation of Force-sensitive individuals to rebuild the Jedi Order. However, Ben SoloThe Star Wars Book destroyed his uncle's new Jedi Order on the planet Ossus in 28 ABYStar Wars: Timelines by heeding the temptations of power offered by Snoke and the dark side of the Force, becoming Kylo Ren, a commander of the First Order, a secretive neo-Imperialist force controlled by the Sith cult of Darth Sidious who came back to life. thumb|right|250px|Rey reconciled the constant war that darkness waged from within the self, honoring the Skywalkers' legacy of hope and embracing her place as a master of the ways of light and compassion. The First Order destroyed the New Republic and quickly conquered the galaxy in 34 ABY while Rey, who had only known life as a scavenger before joining the Resistance in the war against the First Order, sought tutelage from Luke Skywalker himself. Having been disillusioned with the ideals of the Jedi, Skywalker exiled himself to the planet Ahch-To where he will spend the rest of his life and die as the last Jedi. Rey found him, and was inspired by her insistence to give her basic training. He appears at the Battle of Crait, declaring that the rebellion would be reborn through his sacrifice as a Jedi, and that he himself would not be the last Jedi. With renewed inspiration and hope, the Resistance followed the guidance of General Organa. Rey likewise learned the ways of the Jedi from her before confronting Solo, convincing the troubled soul to let go of his burden to the dark side and join Rey and her friends in the fight against the Sith. They ultimately succeeded at the Battle of Exegol in 35 ABY with the support of the Citizens' Fleet and the self-sacrifice of Ben Solo. Despite the end of the Sith's tyranny, the galaxy entered a dark era shaped by the Force. The destruction of the New Republic and the power vacuum left behind by the First Order spawned new conflicts as chaos spread across the galaxy. On the planet Tatooine, Rey chose to carry on the Jedi legacy of the Skywalker family. Master Skywalker worked to build a new Jedi Order to restore peace. However, rising powers who were present in the galaxy opposed Skywalker's efforts to restore the Jedi Order and threatened to destroy them. The "New Jedi Order" was first mentioned as an era in the current canon continuity on StarWars.com in 2023, set after the sequel trilogy. In the same year, Lucasfilm used the partly capitalized term "new Jedi Order" when announcing the upcoming Star Wars film by Sharmeen Obaid-Chinoy that would be set during Rey's building of a new Jedi Order after the events of the 2019 sequel trilogy film Star Wars: Episode IX The Rise of Skywalker. Following The Rise of Skywalker release, the slideshow for the Force's entry in the Databank feature on StarWars.com stated that Rey had ushered in "a new era, to be shaped by the Force in ways as yet unknown." Within the current canon, the fully capitalized term "New Jedi Order" was mentioned in the 2017 forty-sixth issue of the Star Wars Helmet Collection magazine to refer to the new generation of Jedi trained by Luke Skywalker, whereas 2021's Star Wars: The Tiny Book of Jedi uses "THE NEW JEDI ORDER" as the heading for Luke Skywalker's sacrifice at the Battle of Crait, when he declared that he "will not be the last Jedi" in the so-named 2017 sequel trilogy film Star Wars: Episode VIII The Last Jedi.Star Wars: The Tiny Book of Jedi The 2020 reference book The Star Wars Book clarifies that the Jedi Order that Luke Skywalker was trying to rebuild did not reach its former heights, and the 2021 book Star Wars: The Secrets of the Sith similarly refers to Luke Skywalker and his students as "the new Jedi Order that was rising" from Darth Sidious' perspective. *Untitled Star Wars film (Sharmeen Obaid-Chinoy) Category:Time periods