54209
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Hurst
Hurst
8337

Hurst was a Human male cortosis miner on the planet Apatros. Hurst's wife died giving birth to their son, Dessel, which led to Hurst resenting his son and blaming him for his life's problems, specifically the death of his wife and being stuck working on Apatros. Hurst gave Dessel the nickname "Bane" and often beat his son. In 1008 BBY, Hurst died of a suspected massive heart attack, which was actually Dessel unknowingly crushing his heart with the Force. Eventually, his son went on to become the Dark Lord of the Sith Darth Bane, who would not realize he had accidentally killed his father until years later. thumb|left|200px|Hurst's son eventually grew up to become the Sith Lord Darth Bane. Hurst was a Human male born on the Outer Rim planet Apatros. He eventually began working at the local cortosis mine owned by Outer Rim Oreworks Company. Hurst was married, and, around 1026 BBY, his wife gave birth to their son, Dessel. Hurst's wife died giving birth to Dessel, and Hurst was left to raise the child on his own. He subsequently blamed Dessel for all his troubles: his wife's death and being stuck working in the cortosis mine on Apatros. Hurst referred to his son as "Bane," for he considered Dessel to be the bane of his existence. Hurst was a heavy drinker after his wife's death and often beat Dessel while intoxicated. His son began working in the cortosis mine at the age of thirteen, and other miners, including Hurst's good friend Gerd, often tormented and bullied Dessel. Hurst spent more time gambling and drinking than working, and often had to borrow credits from Outer Rim Oreworks to pay for his monthly room and board. The interest rate on the loans piled up year after year, and Hurst accumulated great debt. In 1008 BBY, Hurst died of what was claimed to be a massive heart attack after beating his son heavily in a drunken rage. After his death, Dessel was stuck with his father's debt. Dessel surmised that Hurst, who resented his son, would be happy that he was stuck with the bill. In 1003 BBY, Gerd reprimanded Dessel because of his lack of grief in remembering his father's death. The two started arguing after Dessel answered that he did not, in fact, miss his father, which eventually led to a fight that Dessel won using the Force instinctively. thumb|right|200px|Darth Bane remembered his father during the Duel on Ambria (pictured). Sometime later, Dessel escaped Apatros, joining the Sith army during the New Sith Wars against the Galactic Republic. After serving with distinction, Dessel's Force-sensitivity was discovered and he became Darth Bane, a powerful Dark Lord of the Sith. Darth Bane named himself after the nickname "Bane" given to him by Hurst. Later on, as a Sith, Bane often thought about his father's beatingsDarth Bane: Rule of Two and eventually realized that he unknowingly caused Hurst's death with the Force. In 980 BBY,The Essential Reader's Companion dates the events of Darth Bane: Dynasty of Evil, which include the Duel on Ambria, to 980 BBY. Darth Bane fought against his Sith apprentice Darth Zannah on the planet Ambria. During the fight, Zannah used Sith sorcery against Bane, making him experience his worst fears, which included the memory of his father. Bane was eventually able to break the spell after defeating the traumatic memory of Hurst and his beatings.Darth Bane: Dynasty of Evil Hurst greatly resented his son Dessel, blaming him for his wife's death in childbirth and most of his life's problems, such as being stuck working on Apatros. He drank heavily and was a gambler, and he often beat Dessel while drunk. Hurst incited great anger in his son due to the beatings and him giving Dessel the moniker "Bane," which led to his death when Dessel killed him with the Force. Dessel despised Hurst for his way of living and, after Hurst's death, stopped referring to him as his father. Hurst first appeared in flashbacks in Darth Bane: Path of Destruction, a 2006 novel written by Drew Karpyshyn as the first installment in the Darth Bane Trilogy. *Darth Bane: Path of Destruction *Darth Bane: Rule of Two *Darth Bane: Dynasty of Evil *Jedi vs. Sith: The Essential Guide to the Force *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Apatros residents Category:Humans Category:Individuals with he/him pronouns Category:Males Category:Miners