54279
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Nashira
Nashira
3047

Nashira was a female Human Fallanassi during the reign of the Galactic Empire. Nashira's people, the Fallanassi, were an order devoted to the service of the White Current, a power the rest of the galaxy knew more commonly as the Force. The ability of the Fallanassi to create immense illusions concerned then-Chancellor Palpatine, and after he declared himself Emperor, they became one of the first groups to be targeted. Luckily, the illusions also helped them hide their presence&mdash;until one of their own sold out their location to the Empire. The leader of the Fallanassi, Wialu, eventually became aware of the treachery and the traitor, a young woman named Isela Talsava, was exiled from the Fallanassi forever. However, Wialu offered to allow Talsava's daughter Akanah to stay with the Fallanassi. Talsava refused and fled to the world of Carratos. Some time later, Talsava was contacted again by the Fallanassi about allowing the training of Akanah in the study and practice of the White Current. Wialu sent Nashira to Talsava in hopes of convincing her to change her mind about keeping Akanah from her people, who could fully train her in her powers and the Fallanassi way. Though unwilling to send Akanah back to the Fallanassi, Talsava agreed to allow the Fallanassi to create a trust account which Akanah could access when she came of age and use the funds to travel back to the Fallanassi if she so chose. Soon after Nashira returned to her people Talsava betrayed her own daughter, stealing the entirety of the trust and abandoning her alone on Carratos. Years later, prior to the Black Fleet Crisis in 16 ABY, Akanah used Nashira's name to mislead Jedi Master Luke Skywalker into helping her. Akanah, who was tracking her people from whom she had been separated, told Luke that his mother, "Nashira", had been a Fallanassi. Eager to learn more about the mother he had never known, Luke accompanied Akanah on her search. During the final interaction between Wialu and Luke Skywalker, though unwilling to confirm nor deny Nashira as actually being Luke's mother, Wialu told Luke "Tell your sister that when she is ready to follow her own path, she would be welcome among us." *Before the Storm *Shield of Lies *Tyrant's Test *The New Essential Chronology *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Fallanassi Category:Females Category:Humans