54248
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Kolkpravis
Kolkpravis
6840

}} The Kolkpravis was a large Kaleesh tribal warrior band from the eastern hemisphere of the planet Kalee. From their ranks arose an elite group of warriors known as the Izvoshra, which included figures such as Qymaen jai Sheelal and Bentilais san Sk'ar. Fueled by ancient hatreds, the Kolkpravis was founded after extraplanetary threats arose against Kalee. The early conflicts of the Kolkpravis were mainly against Thalassian slavers and Ore Raiders. Soon, around 65 BBY, the Galactic Republic was alarmed by the Bitthævrian expansion from the Kadok Regions. Through a failed coup, the Republic used the Kolkpravis to fuel their own needs, using them as an insurgent force against the Bitthævrians, leading to the Bitthævrian War. Members of the Kolkpravis such as Qymaen jai Sheelal's great-grandmother used Czerka outland rifles as their primary weapons, often fixed with bayonets. The Jedi Order also played a part in the Kaleesh&ndash;Bitthævrian War, as the Kolkpravis received help from the Jedi Qui-Gon Jinn and Count Dooku. The bitter conflict between the Kaleesh and Bitthævrians lasted five years, resulting in a joint Kaleesh-Jedi victory that defeated the Bitthævrians and nearly destroyed the m'Yalfor'ac Order. All the while, the Kaleesh were unaware of their having been used as puppets by the Republic. Sometime after the Kaleesh–Bitthævrian War, the Kolkpravis faced a new, more imminent threat: the Yam'rii, or Huk in Kaleesh. The Huk invaded Kalee in search for a new colony world, and the defenders of Kalee found themselves led by Qymaen jai Sheelal and his soul mate Ronderu lij Kummar. Qymaen soon organized the Kolkpravis into what would become their military organization, appointing eight Izvoshra, or elites. Izvoshra members were responsible for protecting Qymaen and carrying out his will. After driving the Huk from Kalee, Qymaen and his Kolkpavis mercilessly chased the Huk back to their homeworld and slaughtered civilian and soldier alike. The Huk called for the Galactic Republic to intervene, and they did. The Republic sent the Jedi to bring an abrupt end to the war, at which point the Republic placed heavy sanctions on the Kaleesh people. The Kolkpravis found themselves defeated and broken, their crusade having been ruined, and with the economic sanctions, their homeworld now impoverished. The khagan of the Kolkpravis, Qymaen, took the name Grievous to mourn the loss of his soulmate, Ronderu lij Kummar, who was lost in battle against the Huk. With Kalee in ruin and his soulmate dead, Grievous took to trying to alleviate the economic problems on Kalee, having sought work with the InterGalactic Banking Clan as a "collections agent." He returned to his homeworld once word reached his ears that the Huk had desecrated an ancient burial site on the world of Oben. Since the InterGalactic Banking Clan was going to lose a valuable employee, they decided to destroy the shuttle carrying Grievous and his eight Izvoshra. Only one Izvoshra survived, Bentilais san Sk'ar, while Grievous himself was gravely injured. After the death of the seven Izvoshra and the disappearance of Grievous, Bentilais san Sk'ar rallied the Kolkpravis and moved to strike the Huk on the world of Oben, massacring those present. Sk'ar then migrated the Kaleesh to Oben, a world with greater resources than their homeworld of Kalee. During the Imperial Era, Imperial Navy Captain Thrawn sought to conquer the Fringe territories. He set Oben ablaze and soon Sk'ar left the Kolkpravis and went to serve the Galactic Empire under Emperor Palpatine. After the disappearance of Sk'ar a female Kaleesh came to lead the Kolkpravis, some Kaleesh believing she was a second reincarnation of Ronderu lij Kummar. The remaining Kolkpravis sought to defend what remained of their once proud civilization. The organization of the Kolkpravis was naturally tribal. The lowest rank of the Kolkpravis was a warrior, organized into the smallest unit, known as a kamen, led by an officer identified as a blackarm. Roughly 100 kamen made up a horde, led by a tarkhan. Around 100 to 200 hordes made up a brigade, commanded by a baatar. Several brigades were organized as a khanate, overseen by one of the eight khans of the Izvoshra. The Supreme Commander of the Kolkpravis was the khagan, a title held first by Qymaen jai Sheelal. *Galaxy at War Category:Kaleesh culture Category:Military units Category:Wild Space organizations