54508
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Shadowfeed
Shadowfeed
4653

thumb|right|300px|Anti-Black Sun imagery is distributed across the Shadowfeeds during the Imperial Era. Shadowfeeds were unauthorized holofeeds created by the Confederacy of Independent Systems for propaganda, civilian enjoyment, and covert communication during the Clone Wars as both a network and via the sabotage of the Galactic Republic's HoloNet networks. The Shadowfeeds would manage to survive the war despite Republic successes in shutting many down. thumb|left|250px|A master of propaganda who could also present himself as a gentle figure, Count Dooku (pictured) used the Shadowfeeds to push the Separatist narrative during the Cone Wars. Created by the Confederacy of Independent Systems,Reign of the Empire: The Mask of Fear the Shadowfeeds were used by the Separatist Alliance leader, Count Dooku, to spread disruptive propaganda in favor of the Separatists and against the Galactic Republic during the Clone Wars. The Shadowfeeds were also created for covert communication. While also established as a network by the Confederacy, Shadowfeeds were created through sabotage of HoloNet networks used by the Republic. A master of manipulative propaganda, Dooku presented a simple and saintly demeanor and was called "Gentle Hand" by superstitious inhabitants on numerous worlds.Star Wars: Complete Vehicles (2018) Separatist Senator Ansibella Dellu supervised the Shadowfeeds in Republic spaceStar Wars Propaganda: A History of Persuasive Art in the Galaxy while "the Factory" outlet was overseen by Bana Rhuus. Republic Intelligence was able to shut down many of these Republic-hijacking Shadowfeeds quickly, which eventually led to the creation of the Commission for the Protection of the Republic. The governor of the planet Eriadu, Wilhuff Tarkin, was responsible for frustrating Dooku by providing counterintelligence to shut down his Shadowfeeds during the Clone Wars. Nonetheless, the Shadowfeed network managed to survive the war. The Factory produced entertainment and news for the Separatist Shadowfeeds. Shadowfeeds continued into the time of the Galactic Empire, now broadcasting information the Empire did not want known. Sabine Wren, a member of the rebel group known as the Spectres, monitored Shadowfeeds and learned information such as moss painting being a big deal on Alderaan.Sabine My Rebel Sketchbook Criminal syndicates including Black Sun and Crimson Dawn also made use of the Shadowfeeds.Crimson Reign 1 *Reign of the Empire: The Mask of Fear *Tarkin *Star Wars (2020) 7 *Crimson Reign 1 *Sabine My Rebel Sketchbook *Star Wars Propaganda: A History of Persuasive Art in the Galaxy *Rise of the Separatists *Collapse of the Republic Category:Communications networks Category:HoloNet technology Category:News and entertainment programs Category:News networks and companies