54632
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/EEK-176
EEK-176
5490

|mass= |gender= |pronouns= |sensor= |plating= |armament= |equipment=E-5 blaster rifle |affiliation=*Trade Federation **Trade Federation Droid Army }} EEK-176 was a B1-series battle droid manufactured to serve in the Trade Federation Droid Army. In 32 BBY, the Trade Federation invaded the planet Naboo, and EEK-176 participated in the initial landing on the world by leading a group of droids to assist command battle droid OOM-9 in the attack of the city of Vis and other nearby towns. EEK-176 was a B1-series battle droid who was given masculine programming. Like all B1 battle droids, EEK-176 served in the Droid Army of the galactic corporation known as the Trade Federation. In the year 32 BBY, the Trade Federation launched a full-scale invasion of the planet Naboo. During the Federation's landing on Naboo, EEK-176 commanded a group of droids that landed south of the city Vis aboard a C-9979 landing craft. thumb|right|300px|EEK-176's forces arriving in Vis The Droid Army targeted Vis because of its transmitter, which, if not destroyed, would allow the people of Naboo to spread word of the invasion back to the Galactic Republic, damaging the Federation's plans. EEK-176 waited for command battle droid OOM-9 to reach the city, and upon his arrival both droids began a flanking maneuver on Vis from the east and south. The Federation droids overcame the Naboo soldiers in the city and destroyed the Vis transmitter. EEK-176's droids later assisted OOM-9 in taking two other cities that housed transmitters, New Centrif and Parrlay, preventing the Naboo from contacting the Republic. EEK-176 was given command of a small group of droids, which included three droidekas, four B1-series battle droids, and four beetle droids in the Trade Federation Army. With that small force it was able to successfully assist OOM-9 in his attack on Vis. Like all B1 battle droids, EK-176 wielded an E-5 blaster rifle and was 1.91 meters tall. The droid's head and some other parts of its body were colored white, while the rest was brown. EEK-176 first appeared in the 2001 PC video game Star Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds, in which it was voiced by Murphy Dunn. In the first level of the Trade Federation campaign, entitled "Beachhead," the player attacks Vis, and EEK-176's voice is heard telling OOM-9 that its forces are flanking Vis. In the game's level editor, EEK-176 is a unique character that can be placed in custom-made player levels. An unused audio file from the end of the second Trade Federation level; "Behind the Lines," has Nute Gunray reward OOM-9 for his victory in Harte Secur by reassigning him to the invasion of Spinnaker, sending EEK-176 to replace him. *Star Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds *Star Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds: Clone Campaigns Category:B1-series battle droids Category:Droids of the Trade Federation Category:Droids with unspecified gender programming Category:Droids with unspecified pronouns