54754
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Droid_control_program
Droid control program
6868

The droid control program was a piece of technology used to keep the Trade Federation Droid Army activated, stored in a brown crate. Five programs were sent to the planet Naboo during the Trade Federation's invasion, where one was stolen from the B1-series battle droid OOM-14. It was later recovered by the droid OOM-9 and reactivated by a Neimoidian technician. The droid control program was a technological device that kept the Trade Federation Droid Army online. It was contained insideStar Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds: Prima's Official Strategy Guide a brown cubed crate on top of a round base. The cube had indented sections on its faces that had white patterns of a plus sign overlayed on a circle. thumb|left|300px|The droid control program was captured by the Naboo and taken to a research center south of Harte Secur. During the Trade Federation's invasion of the planet Naboo in 32 BBY, five droid control programs were sent with their invading army. One program was placed in the protection of the B1-series battle droid Commander OOM-14, but it was stolen from him by the Royal Naboo Security Forces team Force Command Two. The loss of the program rendered OOM-14's forces motionless at a Deactivated Camp, while the program was taken to a Research Center south of the Naboo city Harte Secur for analysis. Trade Federation Viceroy Nute Gunray was concerned that the Naboo would be able to duplicate the program and turn the army against the Trade Federation. The Federation also jammed Naboo communications around Harte Secur to prevent hackers from duplicating and spreading a rogue version of the program. Gunray charged his most trusted battle droid, OOM-9, with retrieving the program, providing a Neimoidian technician and a small task force of droids to complete the objective. The droids stormed the research center and killed the royal troopers there, afterward collecting the program inside OOM-9's personal Heavy Armored Assault Tank, which the technician had occupied. The droids returned to the camp and the technician used the program to reactivate OOM-14's army, and they went on to destroy Harte Secur. Gunray reported the recovery of the program to his secret benefactor, the Sith Lord Darth Sidious. The droid control program was first indirectly mentioned in Star Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds: Prima's Official Strategy Guide by Steven L. Kent, released on November 7, 2001. It appeared and was identified in the LucasArts video game Star Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds, released on November 11 the same year. The program is the central focus of the second level of the Trade Federation campaign, "Behind the Lines." The strategy guide compares the functionality of the program with a holocron, in that only a specific unit can utilize it, that being the Neimoidian technician instead of a Jedi or Sith. The strategy guide recommends that the player keep the technician inside OOM-9's AAT, allowing the program to automatically be collected. If the technician is not inside the AAT, moving him near the program causes it to disappear, only reappearing when the technician returns to the camp. If the player places the program in a custom scenario, it can be picked up by Jedi or Sith units, which turns the program into a holocron. *Star Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds *Star Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds: Clone Campaigns *Star Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds: Prima's Official Strategy Guide Category:Droid programming