54877
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/List_of_fanon_elements_in_continuity
List of fanon elements in continuity
25580

Occasionally, elements developed by fans make their way into the official canon. This usually involves popular theories held by fans that are eventually accepted by authors as truth, however are sometimes more specific as ideas or artwork by a fan appearing on web sites or forums. Below is a list of fanon elements that have been included into EU literature and thus have become canon. Stacy, the main character from the Pink Five series of fan films, made an appearance in Timothy Zahn's novel Allegiance. Adopted by Joe Corroney for use in CIS Shadowfeed Year's Start Fete Day Edition. Sha'ala's character was based on artwork commissioned by Bryan K. Borgman of a Force adept created for his Star Wars RPG home game in early 2000. Various vessels created by Ansel Hsiao, including the Vigil-class corvette, the Altor-class replenishment ship, the Allegiance-class battlecruiser, the Assertor-class Star Dreadnought, the Procursator-class Star Destroyer, the Bellator-class dreadnought, and Naval Station Validusia, appeared in The Essential Guide to Warfare and were later entered into the Holocron continuity database. Adopted by Abel G. Peña for use in The Story of General Grievous: Lord of War, the notion that Thrawn might eventually have obtained Grievous's mask originated in a forum thread at the Jedi Council. User Charles Phipps, aka Charlemagne19, posed the question of how Grievous would do tactically against Thrawn, in response to which forumers Mike Cooper and Kyle Hartshorn, aka Rogue_Follower, posited that it would depend on whether he had seen Kaleesh art; namely, Grievous's mask. Webmaster Michael Potts extrapolated a founding date of 350 BBY for the Trade Federation based on available information, and was pleasantly surprised to see this time made canonical in The Essential Guide to Alien Species. During a conversation he had with Timothy Zahn at the 2004 Stellarcon, Albin Johnson came up with the idea of rogue vigilante stormtroopers. Zahn later included the idea, as the Hand of Judgment, in his novel Allegiance. This lightsaber form was a widespread fan concept that was eventually included in the Star Wars Roleplaying Game Saga Edition Core Rulebook. The "Endor Holocaust" theory was first put forward by Curtis Saxton on his Star Wars Technical Commentaries fansite. Saxton claims that it is scientifically inevitable for the disaster to happen. Some sources, such as X-Wing: Wedge's Gamble and the comic "Apocalypse Endor," mention the theory as in-universe Imperial propaganda or myth. The concept that Endor was a rogue moon, formerly orbiting a destroyed gas giant, originated in the Return of the Jedi novelization and was reproduced in Curtis Saxton's Star Wars Technical Commentaries , which elaborated on the gas giant's absence. The Essential Atlas acknowledged (and debunked) the theory, mentioning an in-universe "hoax" which wrongly claimed that the planet was destroyed in a cataclysmic event. Some fans speculated that Palpatine's full name was Cos Palpatine, derived from an early version of the Star Wars script where his name was originally Cos Dashit. Although Palpatine himself was not granted this name, his father was granted the name "Cosinga Palpatine" in the novel Darth Plagueis, which, when shortened, is "Cos Palpatine." Unnamed entities usually acquire fan-made nicknames, and sometimes, these make their way into canon. Jedi Exile was a fanon nickname for this nameless character (called just exile in the game dialogues), however this has been adopted in The New Essential Guide to Droids, before she was given the name Meetra Surik in The Old Republic: Revan. John Jackson Miller identified Wookieepedia as the source of the conjectural name "Padawan Massacre of Taris," which appeared in Knights of the Old Republic 11. The common fan designation of this ship as the "DP-20" or "DP20" was finally canonized in the revised version of Starships of the Galaxy. The term "Force kick" is a joking reference to a poorly choreographed fighting instance in Star Wars: Episode VI Return of the Jedi. This sparked off a minor fad within the Star Wars-oriented part of the YTMND community, in which the term might have originated. Eventually the Force kick received a canonical mention in Order 66: A Republic Commando Novel, albeit as a joke, and then was fully canonized in Star Wars: The Old Republic. The name "Sith Triumvirate" was first coined for the trio of Darth Traya, Darth Sion and Darth Nihilus by Wookieepedia until authors John Jackson Miller, Rodney Thompson, Sterling Hershey, and Abel G. Peña made the name for the group official in Knights of the Old Republic Campaign Guide. thumb|right|150px|The Twi'leki of Jedi Knights 6 is based on a fan dictionary. During the early days of Wookieepedia in 2006, a point in time where less oversight existed for the website's editors, Wookieepedia editor Doran added their own fan translations onto several pages relating to Mandalorian leaders by roughly translating their names to Mando'a. These fanon translations would remain on Wookieepedia for years and spread across the fandom as if they were canonized names, with Mandalore the Ultimate, in particular, allegedly being known as "Te Ani'la Mand'alor" in Mando'a. While these fan-translated names were ultimately removed from Wookieepedia in 2021 for being fanon, the 2017 canon reference book Star Wars: The Visual Encyclopedia had used the Te Ani'la name to establish the trees of Te Ani'la as in-universe plants.Star Wars: The Visual Encyclopedia As such, while Mandalore the Ultimate's Mando'a name is fanon, the "Te Ani'la" name itself remains in official Star Wars lore, albeit only for those trees. In the 2025 comic Jedi Knights 6, Jedi Knight Aayla Secura speaks in a form of the Twi'leki language that has its roots in a fanon Twi'lek dictionary from the Infinite Empire fandom forum. Before its usage in Jedi Knights 6, although some words had their roots in Legends sources, most of the language was fanmade and fanon only. Timothy Zahn, in his novel Survivor's Quest, named the 501st Legion after the international fan group of the same name. The unit would go on to be featured as Darth Vader's personal stormtrooper legion in Revenge of the Sith and be the focus of the game Star Wars: Battlefront II, as well as being prominently featured in the book Dark Lord: The Rise of Darth Vader, the television series Star Wars: The Clone Wars, and many other works. For years, fans have been referring to the Star Wars galaxy as the GFFA; an acronym of Galaxy Far, Far Away. When Del Rey set out to create a new galactic government near the end of the Yuuzhan Vong War, they christened it the Galactic Federation of Free Alliances as an homage to the fanon term. The BBY system used in many sources to represent dates in the Star Wars timeline originated as an out-of-universe dating system and, after becoming popular, was retconned into an in-universe system used by the New Republic. This company mentioned in HoloNet News Vol. 531 50 released a set of Jedi trading holograms that the Jedi Council denounced as "random and arbitrary;" among such 'facts' Coleman Trebor said "They have Master Yoda's species listed as Lannik, and his midi-chlorian count at 4 million. That's just ridiculous". This, combined with the company's CEO's defense of the data only containing "minor inaccuracies...created using the best information available" seems to be a reference to SuperShadow. Spotts is also in reference to the popular Topps trading card manufacturers. Legacy of the Force: Betrayal mentions how Aayla Secura "entered the folkloric cycles of several primitive cultures, where she often was merged with local historical figures or goddess-characters... Even today, educated immigrants from those cultures will write fictive cycles about her, some of them amazingly prurient." Firmus Piett was not originally intended to appear in Return of the Jedi, and was not in the script. However, during the filming, a fan mail convinced George Lucas to include him. The droid R2-KT was created by a member of the 501st Legion fan organization, and it eventually was given an appearance in Star Wars: The Clone Wars television series. The "Han shot first" observation which became a motto of purist fans has been referenced as an in-joke in official Star Wars media. For example, in the game Star Wars: Battlefront II it is possible, while playing as Han Solo, to hear the enemy troops exclaim, "It's Solo, and he's shooting first- that's not fair!". In the novel Legacy of the Force: Bloodlines, Boba Fett remarks that Han should learn to shoot first. In Underworld: A Galaxy of Scum and Villainy (Star Wars Insider 89), an in-universe report states that Han "is prone to 'shooting first'." There are several other references in the New Jedi Order time period and beyond where Leia makes remarks about Han always shooting first. On occasion, authors name their characters after Star Wars fans that are well known in the community. *Ausar Auset (named after a Dark Horse forum member ausar_auset.) *Vob Bitas (Bob Vitas) *Durnar (named after a Dark Horse forum member) *JMM (James M. McFadden) *Lwothin (named after the online alias of Christopher McElroy, Nightowl) *Meeshal (named after Mish'al Samman) *Dama Montalvo (named after a Dark Horse forum member) *Nict (named after Jedi Council Forums member AdmiralNick22) *Orrimaarko (Orrin Marko) *Pepin (Dany Pépin) *R2-KT (Katie Johnson) *Krono Relt (Nathan Butler) *Tap-Nar-Pal (named after a Dark Horse forum member) *T'Bolton (named after a Dark Horse forum member) *Dunc T'racen (Tracy Duncan) *Xeltek (named after the message board screen name of Star Wars fan Christian Florbrant) *Ram Zerimar (named after Raymond Ramirez, StarWars.com blogger and Iraq war veteran) *Darth Bane in Star Wars: Legacy, appearance modeled on a costume by Thomas J. Spanos. *Guri, based on Leah Mangue. (by Joe Corroney, Underworld: A Galaxy of Scum and Villainy) *Ganner Krieg, based on Thomas J. Spanos. *Krono Relt, based on Nathan Butler. (Empire 13) *Ishin-Il-Raz, based on Maikel Das, a regular contributor for the . (by Joe Corroney, Who's Who: Imperial Grand Admirals and Republic HoloNet News Special Inaugural Edition 16:5:241) *Palpatine (in a young clone body holding the Holocron of Bodo-Baas) in 20 Most Memorable Moments of the Expanded Universe by Joe Corroney, appearance modeled on a costume by Thomas J. Spanos *Shea Sadashassa, based on Roseanna Chickos, a Boston Rebels FanForce member. (by Joe Corroney, Republic HoloNet News Special Inaugural Edition 16:5:24) When an author or artist un-intentionally implements a fan idea, due to mistakenly believing it to already be canon. Apparently originating in Book of Imperial Shuttle Plans: Cygnus Spaceworks, a series of fan-made blueprints for the Lambda-class T-4a shuttle, Cygnus Spaceworks has been mentioned in such references as X-Wing: The Official Strategy Guide and The New Essential Guide to Vehicles and Vessels as the manufacturer of Lambda-class shuttles and similar vessels. A reference to the Unification Wars in Star Wars Revenge of the Sith: Incredible Cross-Sections may also be inspired by the same source. In Star Wars Revenge of the Sith: Incredible Cross-Sections, it was stated that the Imperial-class Star Destroyer was initially designated Imperator-class, and this term has been repeated in subsequent sources with reference to the earliest years of the Empire. Like the name of Cygnus Spaceworks, this term derives from a set of old, and apparently fan-made blueprints, hull-plans for a "Star Destroyer - Imperator Class". As a matter of trivia, it is worth mentioning in this context that the Marvel Star Wars comics did use a distinct designation for Star Destroyers; but this was "Star Destroyer-class Battle Cruiser". The design for K'Kruhk's lightsaber was developed by a fan and displayed on his website. Artist Jan Duursema implemented the design into Jedi: Mace Windu, mistakenly thinking that the design was from a canon source. Jeisel's first name was the result of a misunderstanding. Jan Duursema's daughter, Sian, dressed as Jeisel for Celebration III. A photograph of her from that event was captioned "Sian Jeisel"; fans confused this as the character's full name, rather than the name of the person in the costume followed by what the costume portrayed. This confusion apparently led to The New Essential Guide to Alien Species using this name in text, making it official. Unsubstantiated fan theories placed Salo Gardner as the actor for Trinto Duaba in Star Wars: Episode IV A New Hope due to the actor's similar appearance to the onscreen alien (despite the fact that Duaba's appearance was achieved by a one-piece rubber mask created by Rick Baker and not makeup). When Gardner later appeared in Star Wars: Episode VII The Force Awakens, news sites erroneously made the connection to Trinto Duaba based on the disproven myth. When Gardner's new character was featured in LEGO Star Wars: The Force Awakens, the same mistake was made and the character was identified as Trinto Duaba.LEGO Star Wars: The Force Awakens When Lucasfilm specifically invites fans to provide input into the Star Wars universe. While these elements were technically never "fanon", they were created by the fans and deserve mention here. For the book Galladinium's Fantastic Technology, West End Games and the Role Playing Game Association held a contest allowing players of Star Wars: The Roleplaying Game to submit various examples of technology; winning entries were included in the book. Out of about seventy-five submissions, nearly half were included in the book, with first place going to Michael Zebrowski for his Repulsor Grappling Gun. Star Wars Galaxy magazine held a contest inviting fans to submit artwork and descriptions of original Star Wars aliens. These winning alien designs were published in Star Wars Galaxy Magazine 7. For the Star Wars: Clone Wars animated series, Cartoon Network held an online poll which allowed viewers to pick which of three Jedi would be featured in an upcoming episode. The winning choice, Voolvif Monn, appeared in episodes 20 and 22. The two other choices, Foul Moudama and Roron Corobb, appeared later in the series. Hyperspace members were invited to vote for the color scheme of R4-G9 appearing in Star Wars: Episode III Revenge of the Sith. A monthly invitation for members of Hyperspace to provide a backstory for a certain element of the films or EU. While the main subject already exists in the universe, fans are able to introduce additional new elements in their entries. Winning entries are published in the Databank. Members of StarWars.com were given the chance to give Jacen Solo his Sith name: Darth _____. Five fan-submitted names were nominated: Darth Acheron, Darth Caedus (which was the winner), Darth Judicar, Darth Paxis and Darth Taral. Voting concluded on February 27th, 2007, and the winning submission was included in the novel Legacy of the Force: Sacrifice, from Del Rey publishing. The LucasArts held a poll to determine how Star Wars: Empire at War: Forces of Corruption would be fit into continuity. The options were: #As much of it as possible should be included. #The basic storyline, but without a lot of the gameplay elements, should be included. #Only things like the units and characters should be considered part of continuity. #None of it should be included. #I really don't worry about such things. * - Jan Duursema's message boards * - organization's website * - thelightsaber.com Fanon Category:Star Wars culture