54820
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/General%27s_quarters
General's quarters
8564

|type= |location=Wizard's Tower, Invisible Hand |terrain= |fauna= |flora= |interest= |affiliation=Confederacy of Independent Systems }} The General's Quarters was a large observation chamber situated at the aft section of General Grievous's flagship, Invisible Hand, atop a fin-like spire. The General's quarters was an observation chamber located on the top section of a spire known as the Wizard's Tower onboard the Separatist Providence-class carrier/destroyer Invisible Hand. It was a fully equipped military command center with tactical displays, duty posts, a briefing table and windows with computer programming that was able to make any battle that look place around the ship completely visible to anyone looking through them. Next to it was a chair known as the General's chair.Star Wars: Episode III Revenge of the Sith Up a staircase on the other side of the room was a platform that spanned the length of the room, up to the windows. The platform contained a door to a turbolift lobby. Grievous brought Supreme Chancellor Palpatine to the General's quarters and shackled him to the General's chair after kidnapping him from Coruscant in 19 BBY during the Battle of Coruscant. Inside it, he recorded and broadcast a HoloNet message to the citizens of the Galactic Republic, gloating over the capture of Palpatine. Later, Obi-Wan Kenobi and Anakin Skywalker boarded the Invisible Hand to rescue Palpatine. Before they arrived, Count Dooku and Palpatine discussed their plan, which Dooku believed involved him killing Kenobi when the Jedi arrived, causing Skywalker to fall to the dark side, after which he would take Dooku captive. Dooku hid inside a turbolift shortly before Kenobi and Skywalker entered the turbolift lobby. thumb|left|200px|Anakin Skywalker, Obi-Wan Kenobi, and Count Dooku fighting in the General's quarters. The Jedi cut a hole in the door to the General's quarters with their lightsabers and made their way down the staircase, where they greeted the Chancellor. Palpatine spotted spotted Dooku entering the General's quarters flanked by two B2 super battle droids and several OOM security droids,Star Wars: Episode III — Revenge of the Sith comic adaptation to which he alerted the Jedi. Dooku jumped over the railing of the platform and drew his lightsaber; the Jedi doing the same. The Count asked Kenobi and Skywalker to hand over their lightsabers, claiming that he didn't want to make a mess in front of the Chancellor, but Kenobi responded that they weren't going to let Dooku escape and ignited his, followed by Skywalker and Dooku. The trio fought Dooku up the stairs and onto the platform, with Kenobi taking out the battle droids in the process. On top of the platform, Dooku kicked aside Skywalker and lifted Kenobi into the air with the Force, choking him. Skywalker watched as he threw Kenobi under the platform across the room and brought the walkway down on top of him, knocking Kenobi unconscious. In response, Skywalker got up and kicked Dooku over the railing, before jumping over it himself to continue fighting him. Skywalker and Dooku eventually made their way back towards the General's chair, where Skywalker bested Dooku, cutting off both of his hands. The Jedi grabbed the Sith's lightsaber and ignited it as Dooku fell to his knees, with his head in between Skywalker's blade and his own. Palpatine commended Skywalker for his victory and ordered him to kill Dooku, who looked at him in surprise. Skywalker hesitated, but Palpatine continued goading him, and the Jedi gave in, cutting off Dooku's head and sheathing the lightsabers. Skywalker freed the Chancellor, who reassured him that Dooku was too dangerous to be left alive and the pair began to head towards the turbolift lobby. As they passed Kenobi, Skywalker bent down to check on him and determined that he was still living. Palpatine told Skywalker to leave him, fearing that dragging Kenobi with them would slow them down and cause them to be killed, but the latter informed the former that if Kenobi died, so would they. With Skywalker carrying Kenobi on his back, the Jedi and the Chancellor entered the turbolift lobby. Skywalker tried to open the turbolift but found it wasn't active, so he asked R2-D2 over his comlink to turn on the turbolift. Before R2-D2 could turn it on, the Invisible Hand artificial gravity was damaged by an attack from the Venator-class Star Destroyer Guarlara and the direction from which Palpatine and the two Jedi had came from began drawing them downwards. The pair barely managed to open the turbolift doors and climb into the shaft before the gravity became fully tiled at 90 degrees. Skywalker and Palpatine began running down the turbolift shaft, through the Wizard's Tower. thumb|right|200px|The Invisible Hand breaking in half, destroying the General's quarters. Not long later, the Invisible Hand began plummeting towards Coruscant and the ship broke in half. The General's quarters were destroyed, along with the rest of the spire and the ship's aft section as it broke away and burned up in Coruscant's atmosphere.Star Wars: Revenge of the Sith: The Visual Dictionary *Labyrinth of Evil *Star Wars: Revenge of the Sith novelization *Star Wars: Episode III Revenge of the Sith junior novelization *Star Wars: Episode III Revenge of the Sith video game *Star Wars: Episode III — Revenge of the Sith 1 *Dark Lord: The Rise of Darth Vader *The Rise and Fall of Darth Vader *Star Wars: Revenge of the Sith Incredible Cross-Sections *Star Wars: Revenge of the Sith: The Visual Dictionary *Star Wars: The Complete Visual Dictionary Category:Invisible Hand locations Category:Starship rooms