54940
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Kar_Lamoran
Kar Lamoran
4657

Captain Kar Lamoran of the Action VI transport Stellar Manx was a Human female from Corellia. During the Galactic Civil War, her ship was commandeered by the Galactic Empire at Kwenn Space Station, but she managed to take it back with help from the Rebel Alliance's Rogue Flight. She then accompanied the Rebels to Bonadan. Kar Lamoran was a Human female from Corellia who captained the Action VI transport Stellar Manx not long after the Battle of Yavin. Eight crewmembers served with her aboard the ship, as did an R5-series astromech droid and an ASP-7 labor droid. On their way back from a supply run to the Circarpous system, the crew stopped at Kwenn Space Station to refuel and were met by two squads of Imperial stormtroopers. The transport was commandeered, and the nine organic members of the crew were taken to the station's prison facilities. Luckily for them, a member of the Rebel Alliance's Rogue Flight managed to rescue them, fighting off two stormtroopers in the process. Lamoran was determined to help the pilot, but he insisted it was too dangerous and sent the crew to inform the rest of Rogue Flight of his plans&mdash;he was heading to Docking Bay 238 to see where the Empire planned to take the Stellar Manx. Lamoran was determined to get her own ship back and followed the Rogue to the hangar, where she helped him dispose of more stormtroopers. The Stellar Manx suddenly took off before they could board, and Lamoran ran to tell Rogue Flight that their wayward member was going after it in an emergency vehicle. With Rogue Flight was the Rebel Han Solo, who commed the adventurous Rogue and warned him that Lamoran's ASP droid might shoot him on sight. The Rogue was able to overcome that final obstacle in his path and return the ship to the station, where Lamoran joined an impromptu Rebel conference. The Rebel astromech droid R2-D2 learned from the Stellar Manx navigation computer that the Imperials had intended to take it to the planet Bonadan, and the Rebels decided to take it there themselves to investigate the Empire's activities. Lamoran initially objected to the idea, but the Rebel leader Leia Organa convinced her of its wisdom. *Star Wars Missions 18: Rogue Squadron to the Rescue *Star Wars Missions 19: Bounty on Bonadan *Star Wars Missions 20: Total Destruction Category:Alliance to Restore the Republic members Category:Corellians Category:Females Category:Humans