55226
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Dendratis_Biological_Exports,_Incorporated
Dendratis Biological Exports, Incorporated
4996

Dendratis Biological Exports, Incorporated, also known as Dendratis Exports, manufactured the wild animal trap known as the bio-cocoon. The technology allowed for the incapacitation or killing of its entrapped target and was classified as a biological hazard. The company and its product were featured in the Bounty Hunters Guild Handbook as well as in Galladinium's Galactic Datalog of Fantastic Technology. thumb|right|220px|Dendratis Biological Exports, Incorporated manufactured the bio-cocoon. Dendratis Biological Exports, Incorporated, alternatively referred to as Dendratis Exports, was a company that manufactured the bio-cocoon trap, sold for two thousand credits. A square plastic sheet, it made use of one or two cultures of microscopic organisms&mdash;kivilol spores in one variant&mdash;to entrap a target that stepped on it&mdash;incapacitating it in one variant but potentially also being lethal in another. The bio-cocoon was registered as a wild animal trap and was popular among big-game hunters, although its usage was also restricted due to it being a biological hazard. At one point between 19 BBY and 0 BBY,The Bounty Hunter Code: From the Files of Boba Fett includes an in-universe copy of the Bounty Hunters Guild Handbook. The included edition of the Handbook was published at some point following the establishment of the Galactic Empire and is annotated by Greedo, whose death is depicted in . Since The New Essential Chronology places the formation of the Empire and the events of A New Hope that included Greedo's death in 19 BBY and 0 BBY, respectively, the included edition of the Bounty Hunters' Guild Handbook must have therefore been published at some point between those two dates. Armory Master Chentu Chek of the Bounty Hunters' Guild mentioned Dendratis Biological Exports, Incorporated and the bio-cocoon in a chapter of the Updated Imperial Edition of the Bounty Hunters Guild Handbook dedicated to various bounty hunter equipment, of which the bio-cocoon was an example. The company was also noted in the entry for the bio-cocoon in the fiftieth-anniversary edition of Galladinium's Galactic Datalog of Fantastic Technology, published at some point between 0 ABY and 3 ABY.Galladinium's Fantastic Technology is set during the time period between the events of and , which corresponds to some point between 0 ABY and 3 ABY, according to The New Essential Chronology. Dendratis Biological Exports, Incorporated was introduced in Galladinium's Fantastic Technology, a 1995 sourcebook authored by Rick D. Stuart for use with West End Games' Star Wars: The Roleplaying Game. The 2013 book The Bounty Hunter Code: From the Files of Boba Fett, which was authored by Daniel Wallace, Jason Fry, and Ryder Windham, introduced the alternate name "Dendratis Exports" for the company. *Galladinium's Fantastic Technology *The Bounty Hunter Code: From the Files of Boba Fett Category:Technology companies