55503
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Holiday_Towers_Hotel_and_Casino
Holiday Towers Hotel and Casino
3427

The Holiday Towers Hotel and Casino, also referred to as simply Holiday Towers,Zorba the Hutt's Revenge was a hotel and casino on Cloud City. It was described as being well-appointed, but not as luxurious as other Bespin establishments. Holiday Towers had four 12 story tall sections. It was located on the west end of Figg Plaza which gave it an exceptional view of Bespin sunsets. It could hold up to 1600 guests and was composed of single, double, deluxe double, and 8 suite rooms. It had a casino on the twelfth floor of each tower which were connected via transparisteel walkways. The central courtyard had an anti-grav pool and the Blue Petal Bar floated over it. Holiday Towers initially belonged to criminal businessman Opun "Black Hole" Mcgrrrr, but Jabba Desilijic Tiure stole the hotel from him in what was described as "a bloody coup", approximately on 1 BBY. In revenge, Mcgrrrr then stole Jabba's accounting droid CZ-3, trying to obtain information to blackmail Jabba, but this plot failed. Later, after Jabba's death on 4 ABY, Lando Calrissian confiscated the hotel. Calrissian did not know that Jabba had left his last will on droid CB-99, which was hidden on a secret room that only Jabba and his father, Zorba Desilijic Tiure, knew. In 5 ABY, Zorba reached Bespin and threatened Calrissian with Jabba's will. Calrissian tried to keep the hotel by playing sabacc with Zorba. Unfortunately for Calrissian, Zorba used his own, rigged cards, winning from Lando both the Holiday Towers hotel and all of his belongings in Cloud City. *Crisis on Cloud City *Zorba the Hutt's Revenge *Queen of the Empire *Prophets of the Dark Side *Galaxy Guide 2: Yavin and Bespin *Galaxy Guide 3: The Empire Strikes Back *The Movie Trilogy Sourcebook *Galaxy Guide 2: Yavin and Bespin, Second Edition *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Bespin locations Category:Casinos Category:Cloud City locations Category:Hotels