56649
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Force_Spike
Force Spike
3971

The force Spike was the designation of a three-squadron wing of Chiss Clawcraft from Syndic Mitth'raw'nuruodo's Household Phalanx. In the first months of the Yuuzhan Vong invasion, Baron Fel deployed them in support of New Republic forces, under the command of his son Jag. thumb|220x220px|Nssis-class Clawcraft, the ship of choice for force Spike. Operating with a battlegroup from the Imperial Remnant under the command of Grand Admiral Gilad Pellaeon, force Spike was instrumental in rescuing Ganner Rhysode, Corran Horn, and Jacen Solo from Garqi. They then joined the Imperial and New Republic forces defending Ithor, where the warrior pride and superlative combat skill of the Chiss pilots caused a stir among the other officers. After the debacle on Ithor, when the Moff Council recalled Pellaeon, Jag Fel elected to remain with New Republic forces on the front line against the Yuuzhan Vong. He sent one squadron back with Pellaeon to report to his father, and placed himself and the other two squadrons of his unit under the command of his uncle General Wedge Antilles aboard Admiral Traest Kre'fey's flagship Ralroost. Records of force Spike's subsequent deployment are very scarce, but while it appears that Household Phalanx command issued a recall order relatively promptly after receiving news of Ithor, it is clear that at least one Clawcraft was still flying alongside Rogue Squadron at the Battle of Kalarba, ten months later. By 28 ABY, it appears that Jag Fel was no longer in command of force Spike. Although Baron Fel promised him that he would get his squadrons and more to command if the Chiss committed against the Yuuzhan Vong, this did not come to pass. In the event, a single squadron was deployed a few months before the Battle of Ebaq, which would remain Fel's command until the end of the war. This may have been one of the three squadrons from force Spike, but combat losses meant that, by the time of the Battle of Yuuzhan'tar, it had been amalgamated with the Galactic Alliance X-wing unit Twin Suns Squadron. *The New Jedi Order: Dark Tide II: Ruin *The New Jedi Order: Balance Point *The New Jedi Order: Dark Journey *The New Essential Guide to Characters *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Empire of the Hand military units