56949
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/R-1_recon_droid
R-1 recon droid
5789

The R-1 recon droid was a standard-issue reconnaissance droid used by Galactic Empire during the Galactic Civil War. It was built by Arakyd Industries and was based on design of the DRK-1 Dark Eye probe droid, originally created by the Sith. The R-1 was popular with snipers, planetary garrisons and shock troops. Some of them had also found a way into the hands of smugglers, bounty hunters, and other independent operations. A small floating droid, the Arakyd Industries R-1 recon droid lacked any tools or hands, but could move through the openings that most of its potential targets could not. It could easily track possible targets, and its internal blaster allowed it to kill a target if need be. The recon droid could be used to scout areas without risking a living observer, spot targets for snipers or starship Orbital bombardment, seek out wanted criminals, or follow suspected individuals. The R-1 recon droid was equipped with an internal orbital strike beacon with a high-power transmitter, although the range was limited to one planet. Once active, friendly starships in orbit could lock onto the beacon's position and deliver a devastating, high-precision orbital strike. While not specifically intended as a self-destruct mechanism, per se, by using the beacon the droid was essentially calling in an orbital strike against its location, which it typically did not survive. The droid's sensors were red and had a black outer plating. It was a fourth-degree droid and cost 16,000 credits. It was based on a Sith probe droid design. Arakyd manufactured the R-1 droids for use by the time of the Clone Wars. They were used by clone snipers for scouting and target acquisition in a number of battlefronts. During the post-Clone Wars rise of the Galactic Empire, recon droids also saw use with planetary garrisons and independent operators such as bounty hunters. In the 2004 video game Star Wars: Battlefront, the sniper class is equipped with a remotely controllable recon droid, which is capable of blaster fire and calling down an orbital strike on its position. Although each faction's recon droid is functionally and aesthetically identical, they are classified as different models according to Star Wars Battlefront: Prima Official Game Guide. Whereas the assassin droid carries the Arakyd Mark IV recon droid and the scout trooper and Rebel marksman carry the Arakyd R-4 recon droid, the clone sharpshooter is outfitted with an Arakyd R-1 recon droid. The recon droid returns in the sequel, Star Wars: Battlefront II (2005), as a part of the clone commander, MagnaGuard, and Imperial officer's arsenal instead, but Star Wars Battlefront II: Prima Official Game Guide designates them all as the Arakyd Mark IV recon droid. *Star Wars: Battlefront *Star Wars: Battlefront II *Star Wars Battlefront: Elite Squadron *Star Wars Battlefront: Renegade Squadron *Star Wars Battlefront: Prima Official Game Guide *The Force Unleashed Campaign Guide *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Arakyd Industries products Category:Combat probe droid models Category:Droid models of the Alliance to Restore the Republic Category:Droid models of the Galactic Empire