57058
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Jinn_Reeso
Jinn Reeso
6875

Jinn Reeso was a member of a bluish-gray-skinned humanoid alien species who competed as a professional Podracer pilot during the year 32 BBY, flying a massive black-and-gray Podracer. Before the Boonta Eve Classic of 32 BBY on the planet Tatooine, Reeso competed in a race that sped through the Tatooine deserts, passing through the Hutt Flats. thumb|left|175px|Jinn Reeso (far right) races on Tatooine. The alien Jinn Reeso competed as a professional Podracer pilot in Podraces during the year 32 BBY. Reeso flew a massive black-and-gray Podracer that had average acceleration and an acceptable top speed. On the spice-mining planet of Mon Gazza, Reeso became quite skilled at the course known as the Spice Mine Run and shared the title of track favorite with fellow pilot Mars Guo. Reeso also once raced on the desert planet Tatooine sometime before the Boonta Eve Classic of 32 BBY, going up against fellow Podracers "Bullseye" Navior, Boles Roor, Neva Kee, Ody Mandrell, and Clegg Holdfast on a course that sped through the Hutt Flats.Star Wars: Episode I Racer: Prima's Official Strategy GuideStar Wars: Episode I Racer: Prima's Official Strategy Guide includes a picture of Jinn Reeso, Navior, Boles Roor, Neva Kee, Ody Mandrell, and Clegg Holdfast competing in a Podrace on Tatooine. According to , Kee disappeared during the the Boonta Eve Classic, which The New Essential Chronology dates to 32 BBY, never to be seen again. No source states that Jinn Reeso or Navior competed in the Boonta Eve Classic, so this article assumes that the pictured Tatooine race from the Episode I Racer strategy guide must have preceded the Boonta Eve race. Jinn Reeso had the reflexes to pilot a Podracer over various kinds of hazardous terrain. A humanoid, Reeso had bluish-gray-colored skin with some whiter highlights around the cheeks, chin, and arms. Reeso's species only had two toes on the end of each leg. Jinn Reeso utilized a massive, dark-colored Podracer. The vehicle had average acceleration and an acceptable top speed. However, Reeso's Podracer had poor handling, and the size of the engines made it difficult to fly straight through narrow gaps or passages. The vehicle could sustain a heavy amount of punishment, being able to take multiple hits from obstacles and other racers before being destroyed. The Podracer was primarily painted black, with gray, wing-shaped logos on the engine and cockpit. When racing, Reeso wore a black jumpsuit, a helmet, and darkened race goggles that obscured the upper half of the face. Jinn Reeso is an unlockable playable character in the video game Star Wars Episode I: Racer. Reeso is not available in normal play but is accessed by using the cheat codes RRJINNRE or RRTANGENTABACUS in the Nintendo 64 version and through a key combination in the PC version of the game. Upon activation, Reeso and his Podracer completely replace all aspects of the character Mars Guo, including the game's record listings and as the track favorite for the game's Spice Mine Run course. Reeso was one of two cheat-code characters in Episode I Racer, the other being Cy Yunga. Reeso's voice was provided by Bob Bergen and Jim Ward. Bergen also provided the game's voices for Ody Mandrell, Cy Yunga, and Gasgano, while Ward provided the voices for Fud Sang and Mars Guo. However, the dual voice acting is due mostly in part to Reeso recycling sound bytes from the other racers. Reeso's voice talent still appears in the game's credits. The model for Reeso's body is a re-textured version of Bozzie Baranta's body model. *Star Wars: Episode I Racer *Star Wars: Episode I Racer: Prima's Official Strategy Guide *Star Wars: Episode I Racer Official Nintendo Player's Guide Category:Individuals of unidentified species Category:Individuals of unspecified gender Category:Podracer pilots