57057
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Cy_Yunga
Cy Yunga
5269

Cy Yunga was an alien Podracer pilot who was active during the year 32 BBY.The New Essential Chronology dates the events of Star Wars: Episode I The Phantom Menace to the year 32 BBY. The racing season presented in the game Star Wars Episode I: Racer must have taken place during this year due to the appearances of Qui-Gon Jinn, Jar Jar Binks, and R2-D2 on Tatooine, which correspond to The Phantom Menace. Yunga piloted a red and white Podracer during his career, which included at least one race on the Outer Rim planet Tatooine. Yunga's career also spanned to the planet Aquilaris, where Yunga was considered to be one of the crowd favorites for the Sunken City course. thumb|left|200px|Cy Yunga participated in a Podrace on Tatooine. Hailing from an alien species, Cy Yunga was a Podracer pilot during the year 32 BBY. Alongside fellow pilot "Bullseye" Navior, Yunga was viewed as a crowd favorite for the Sunken City race course located on the planet Aquilaris. At some point during their career, Yunga participated in a race on the Outer Rim planet Tatooine. Yunga's competitors included the Devlikk Wan Sandage, the Gran Mawhonic, the Toong Ben Quadinaros, and Podrace champion Bozzie Baranta.Star Wars: Episode I Racer: Prima's Official Strategy Guide Eventually, one of Yunga's Podracer engines ended up in the junkyard of a Tatooine-based parts shop owned by the Toydarian Watto. Yunga was a member of a thin, long-necked alien species that exhibited dark-green scales, lanky arms, and short, stubby legs. Yunga's neck led to a single, large green eye. Cy Yunga piloted a Podracer with a red, rocket ship-shaped cockpit and two thin red and white engines with a comet-esque design. The Podracer was fast and agile, yet was frail compared to some of its larger competition. Cy Yunga was created for the video game Star Wars Episode I: Racer as one of the game's playable characters. Rather than appearing on the game's main roster, Yunga was instead treated as a bonus "cheat code" character that could be unlocked with the codes RRCYYUN or RRTANGENTABACUS in the Nintendo 64 version of the game and through a key combination in the PC version. Upon activation, Cy Yunga completely replaces "Bullseye" Navior, including Navior's records and placement as the track favorite of the Sunken City course. Cy Yunga also makes use of Navior's sound-bytes, and as such Yunga's voice, like Navior's, is provided by Bob Bergen. Cy Yunga's in-game model borrows the body from the model of the Glymphid pilot Aldar Beedo, but with a new texture. *Star Wars: Episode I Racer *Star Wars: Episode I Racer: Prima's Official Strategy Guide Yunga, Cy Yunga, Cy Yunga, Cy