57117
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Gharn
Gharn
14604

|gender= |pronouns=He/him |height= |mass= |hair=Black |feathers= |eyes= |skin=Violet |cyber= |families= |parents= |partners= |siblings= |children= |affiliation=*Jedi Order **Taris Four |masters=XamarStar Wars: Knights of the Old Republic Handbook |apprentices= }} Gharn was a Nagai Jedi Padawan who was active in the Jedi Order during the era of the Mandalorian Wars. The Padawan of the Jedi Master Xamar, one of five stationed at the planet Taris's Jedi Tower, Gharn was close friends with four other Padawans in his class&mdash;Humans Zayne Carrick and Shad Jelavan, the Ho'Din Oojoh, and Kamlin, a Falleen. One of very few Nagai Jedi candidates, Gharn, was close to being named a Jedi Knight in approximately 3964 BBY. Gharn's final test as a Padawan, along with the rest of his class, was to cross Taris's rogue moon, which was constantly bombarded by meteors, blind. All of the Padawans completed the trial, and a banquet and ceremony was set up shortly afterward, where the class would learn which of them would be Knighted. However, the five Jedi Masters of the Taris Jedi Tower&mdash;secretly comprising a Jedi Covenant dedicated to watching for the rise of the dark side&mdash;had decided that their class of prospective Jedi would bring about the return of the Sith. After the banquet, the Jedi Masters slew Gharn and his friends. Carrick managed to escape due to a timely late arrival but was officially blamed for the murders. Gharn was a Force-sensitive Nagai who was discovered and taken in by the Jedi Order as a youth. As a youngling, Gharn lived at the Jedi Enclave of the planet Dantooine, whereKnights of the Old Republic 2 he became fast friends with four of his classmates&mdash;Humans Zayne Carrick and Shad Jelavan, the Ho'Din Oojoh, and Kamlin, a Falleen. The five younglings grew up together,Knights of the Old Republic 4 and at one point as younglings Gharn and Kamlin played with clay together at the Enclave. Along with his friends, Gharn eventually became a Padawan at the Jedi Tower of the Outer Rim planet Taris. Gharn trained directly under the Khil Jedi Master Xamar, one of five Jedi Masters in the academy alongside Human Lucien Draay, the Miraluka Q'Anilia, the Feeorin Feln, and Raana Tey, a Togruta. With his friends, Gharn, a rarity as a Nagai Jedi candidate, neared Knighthood in approximately 3964 BBY. thumb|left|250px|Gharn and his classmates descend onto the rogue moon for their last trial. Around that year, Gharn gathered with his classmates for what was to be his final test as a Jedi Padawan. He and his friends would travel to Taris's Rogue Moon, a planetoid in the Taris asteroid belt that was perpetually bombarded by thousands of meteors an hour, and travel blind, trusting only in the Force to guide them, to their Masters' encampment a long distance away. To reach the moon, the Padawans had to endure a rough shuttle ride through the asteroid belt before arriving high above the moon. At one point, Gharn assumed Carrick was asleep and tried to wake him up, but Carrick was just closing his eyes to avoid looking at where they were. After a quick speech from Master Draay, Gharn and the others were dropped from their shuttle, through the asteroid belt, and to the moon below.Knights of the Old Republic 3 Wearing an environment suit with his blast shield down, Gharn successfully traversed the treacherous terrain and passed the test. His classmates also succeeded, with Carrick arriving last. However, unbeknownst to Gharn and the other Padawans, their fate had already been decided.Knights of the Old Republic 5 The five Jedi Masters of Taris actually comprised a secret Jedi Covenant, dedicated to guard against the return of the Sith. As they waited for the Padawans to make it to their camp, the Masters set down to meditate&mdash;together, they shared a vision of a figure in a red environment suit, the same that the Padawans were currently wearing, killing them all and driving the Jedi Order and Galactic Republic to ruin. Believing one of their apprentices to be their destroyer, the Covenant decided that they would have to kill them all in a preemptive strike. thumb|right|180px|Gharn, slain by his Master, Xamar After the group made it home, the Masters cloistered themselves for days; when they emerged, they declared that they had determined who was to be promoted to Jedi Knight and set up a banquet and a ceremony, where the Padawans would learn their fates. Gharn attended the festivities with his classmates&mdash;Carrick, notoriously tardy, arrived late, crashing through a window while in pursuit of a criminal. Afterward, the Padawans retired to the Masters' chambers to discover who would be Knighted. Shad Jelavan arrived late, but Gharn assured him he was not the last to arrive at that Carrick was still missing. While they waited for Carrick, the masters revealed that Carrick was to be knighted too, exciting Gharn and the others. However, Jelavan suspected something was amiss, as he was unwilling to believe that Carrick, by far the least of their class, would actually be made a Jedi Knight. Jelavan then tried to get the Masters to tell them what was really going on. Gharn and the others followed Jelavan's lead, until suddenly the Masters ignited their lightsabers and attacked. The Padawans had no chance, and Gharn was slain alongside Kamlin, Jelavan, and Oojoh. Carrick, who arrived late to find his friends' corpses, escaped the Masters' pursuit after a wild chase. Carrick was blamed for the murders, and he&mdash;along with an "accessory," local Snivvian hood Marn Hierogryph&mdash;had a sizable bounty placed on his head. Meanwhile, the bodies of Gharn and his friends were carried away by medical droids. The story of the massacre became a huge news focus on Taris, and holograms of Gharn and his class could be found as far deep as the Lower City. Gharn and his friends were publicly mourned sometime afterward, with the Masters of the Covenant speaking kindly of them at the funerals.Knights of the Old Republic 9 The year after the murders, Raana Tey, her sanity eroding, had a nightmarish vision in which Gharn and his Jedi class took the place of the Jedi Covenant, and she took the place of Zayne Carrick, walking in on the murders of her fellow Masters. In her dream, Gharn wielded a red lightsaber, such as those that the Sith used.Knights of the Old Republic 16 Xamar, Gharn's Master, would later confess to the murders to the Jedi Council and clear Carrick's name.Knights of the Old Republic 32 Gharn's father eventually joined Carrick's Rogue Moon Project, an organization dedicated to helping refugees, wrongly accused fugitives, and the like.Knights of the Old Republic 48 Gharn had violet skin and short dark hair with a Padawan braid. He was close friends with the four other Padawans in his class, having grown up with them on Dantooine and Taris. Gharn was especially close with Zayne Carrick&mdash;although he enjoyed ribbing the Human, Gharn was overjoyed when he heard that Carrick was going to be Knighted. However, when Shad Jelavan challenged the Taris Jedi Masters on Carrick's potential Knighthood, Gharn followed Jelavan's lead, questioning whether they actually would make Carrick a Jedi Knight. Gharn had a very strong connection to the Force, and, by 3964 BBY, he was adept enough to be nearing the rank of Jedi Knight. Gharn had the ability to see through the Force when his sensory vision was taken away, allowing him to survive his trial on the rogue moon. On Taris, Gharn wore a Jedi robe, along with a belt with several pouches and a pair of gauntlets that covered his hands and forearms. He also had his own blue lightsaber, which was kept in the Jedi Tower along with those of his friends after the Padawan Massacre.Knights of the Old Republic 24 Gharn made his first appearance, albeit unidentified, in Knights of the Old Republic 1, a comic issue written by John Jackson Miller, illustrated by Brian Ching, and published by Dark Horse Comics on January 25, 2006. He was first identified as Gharn in The Taris Holofeed: Prime Edition, an in-universe news report written by Miller and published by Dark Horse in the comic issue Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic/Rebellion flip-book on March 1, 2006. *Knights of the Old Republic 0 *Knights of the Old Republic 1 *Knights of the Old Republic 2 *Knights of the Old Republic 3 *Knights of the Old Republic 4 *Knights of the Old Republic 5 *Knights of the Old Republic 6 *Knights of the Old Republic 9 *Knights of the Old Republic 16 *Knights of the Old Republic 48 *Star Wars: The Old Republic *Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic Handbook *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Individuals of unspecified gender Category:Individuals with he/him pronouns Category:Jedi trainees of the Jedi Order Category:Nagai