57523
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Mission_to_Dorlo
Mission to Dorlo
10148

A mission took place on the planet of Dorlo during the Galactic Civil War. thumb|right|150px|Jedi Master Rahn The Jedi Master Qu Rahn had learned of the location of a mythical location called the Valley of the Jedi, and had decided to assemble a team to investigate the valley, located on the planet Ruusan. By 5 ABY, after the defeat of the Galactic Empire, Rahn assembled a team, consisted of the young human pilot Duno Dree, Rebel Alliance weapons expert Cee Norley and a Klatooinian technologist Rolanda Gron. Rahn's team needed one more member: Nij Por Ral, an expert at ancient linguistics located on the planet Dorlo, where he was working on translating writing carved into ancient ruins uncovered by miners working for the SoroSuub Corporation. Rahn wanted to recruit Por Ral so that he could help decipher any glyphs that were found in the Valley of the Jedi. During the mission, Dree developed an emotional attachment to Norley, but was afraid to admit his feelings to her.Dark Forces: Rebel Agent Dree took the existing team on his transport to Dorlo, landed, and camouflaged the ship. Rahn and the team managed to locate Por Ral and convinced the reluctant linguist to join them on their quest. What seemed to be a lark mission, however, quickly turned into a life or death struggle. They had been pursued by agents of the Imperial Remnant, led by the Dark Jedi Jerec from Vengeance; Jerec was Rahn's adversary and rival in finding the lost valley and ordered his forces to capture Rahn. During their way back, the Rebels's skimmer received blaster fire, Rahn was grazed by a laser and was smeared in allied blood. The rebel team began their return journey to the corvette. Rahn offered Dree and the others words of encouragement before abandoning the skimmer to continue their trek on foot; Rahn knew that the Imperials would track them via the vessel's heat signature and it would all be over. The Rebels were pursued by two Imperial skimmers, one had twenty stormtroopers while the other was led by Jerec's lieutenant Sariss and Maw, and with them was the young Yun in what was his first mission; these were three of the Seven Dark Jedi trained under Jerec. At first the skimmer instruments showed no sign of the Rebels, not even when Yun cross-checked instruments and scanners of both vessels. However the Boltrunian Maw actually had the talent of smelling the fear of his prey through the Force. Jerec called Sariss, momentarily driving her off-balance, expressing curiosity and impatience for the pursue as the Vengeance had no readings either; Sariss assured him that they were on their tail thanks to Maw, whose powers Jerec trusted. The Rebel group eventually came to a halt among the trees for cover, as even Norley, the only real soldier among them, needed to catch her breath; she was always carrying two missile launchers. Dree complained that they should have continued to use the skimmer, and that he could have flown them to the ship and back several times already. Rahn commended Dree for his self-esteem, and explained his reasons for abandoning the vessel. Norley further complained that the others weren't up the task, despite their objections. With time running out, Rahn devised a plan that would have Norley stay behind and buy the others time to escape.Dark Forces: Rebel Agent audio drama With Maw giving orders to an Imperial pilot, the two skimmers followed the tail of the Rebels to the south-east. At some point Rahn's plan was triggered, as Norley, armed her launchers, ambushed them and managed to destroy the skimmer carrying the stormtroopers. As the other was closing, Norley was ready to shoot at it but couldn't make it, as Sariss choked her and shot her in time while Yun in his rage continued blindly to shoot at her even after her death. While Yun believed that the Rebel wanted the Imperials dead, Sariss knew that war was not in Rahn's interests; Norley had just sacrificed herself only to buy her companions some time, and this meant to Sariss that the others were trying to make it to a ship and leave the planet. She ordered the pilot to resume their original course. thumb|left|280px|The [[Vengeance (Vengeance-class)|Vengeance over Dorlo.]] Attempting to escape the planet, Dree's Corvette skipped some initiation procedures in haste; once off, he took a turn and attacked the pursuing skimmer. Although he failed to hit them, it veered off the slipstream and hit a stone wall. The three Dark Jedi and their pilot recovered, but as the pilot complained about a lump on his head, he was decapitated by a lightsaber. The corvette reached space, pursued by four TIE fighters, which actually led her into a trap; despite Rahn's warnings, Dree couldn't see Jerec's flagship, Vengeance, and flew right towards its tractor beams. In vain Dree struggled to dampen the runaway power plants. The Rebel corvette was boarded by an Imperial assault shuttle and a task force of Commandos led by Boc Aseca. After they had filled the areas with Sleeping gas, the occupants fell on their way to the storage lockers with the space suits. They were carried out on stretchers and taken to Jerec for interrogation. Their transport was used for target practice by the Vengeance crew and blown up. right|thumb|250px|Rahn paralyzed by a [[Force Destruction|Force attack from Jerec.]] The prisoners were brought to Vengeance bridge, where Jerec and his Dark Jedi awaited them. Jerec questioned the party about the location of the mystical Valley of the Jedi. With each refusal to cooperate, one member of Rahn's party was executed by Jerec's Dark Jedi underlings. In the end, the Jedi Master succumbed to Jerec's powers, and a hint of the pathway leading to the Valley was revealed. In a final attempt to stop the dark-siders, Rahn stole one of their lightsabers and fought valiantly, until Jerec subdued and killed him. It is suggested in the novelization that Rahn's team included at least one more Rebel: in his first appearance, his white robe is already "red with Rebel blood" but without any of his team, or himself, mentioned to be wounded; this means that an unnamed companion was killed in a skirmish before or during the pursuit. In the novelization, after the darksiders's skimmer is thrown down by Dree's ship, it is Maw who decapitates the helmsman for his mistake; in the dramatization it is Sariss who does this *Dark Forces: Rebel Agent *Star Wars: Jedi Knight: Dark Forces II Category:Battles in the Atravis sector Category:Battles of the Search for the Valley of the Jedi