57581
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Sith_Marauder
Sith Marauder
6290

thumb|right|250px|A Sith Marauder of the Sith Empire during the Cold War Sith Marauders were Sith Warriors who fought during the Great Sith War, the Dark Wars, the Great Galactic War, the following Cold War and eventually the New Sith Wars. They specialized in dual lightsabers and dealing high amounts of damage to enemies in melee combat. thumb|left|150px|A Sith Marauder-in-training stands guard in the Trayus Academy. Sith Marauders were fueled by hatred, rage, and cruelty; the Marauders would typically use Force Rage when entering a battle, entering a battle fury fueled by the dark side. Thus, most Sith Marauders could duel any average Jedi toe-to-toe and win. Sith Marauders first appeared during the Great Sith War. They reached their climax in strength during the time of Darth Traya, Darth Nihilus, and Darth Sion. Hidden in the Trayus Academy on Malachor V, these warriors were trained in great numbers along with other Dark Jedi trained there. However, most of the Sith Marauders were wiped out, along with Sith assassins and Masters, after Meetra Surik fought through the academy to confront Darth Traya. Sith Marauders participated in the Sacking of Coruscant during the Great Galactic War, engaging with many Jedi on the planet. During the New Sith Wars, the Brotherhood of Darkness trained Marauders in academies on Honoghr, Gentes, and Gamorr. In the game Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic II: The Sith Lords, Sith Marauder is one of the dark-side prestige classes that is available to a level 15 character. The class corresponds to the light-side Jedi class Jedi Weapon Master, as neither focus so much on philosophy and Force power as they do on battle. Also in the game The Sith Lords, Sith Marauders are encountered as lightsaber-wielding enemies, most notably on Malachor V. The player will have to face several of these foes throughout the Trayus Academy, finally defeating the lightsaber-oriented Sith and facing Darth Sion and Darth Traya near the end of the game. A similarly named prestige class, dark side marauder, first appeared in The Dark Side Sourcebook. It later appeared in the multiplayer siege mode of the Star Wars: Jedi Knight: Jedi Academy video game. It is not verified how similar these classes are, but they each share the same focus of combat over Force mastery. The Sith Marauder is an advanced class for the Sith Warrior class in the Star Wars: The Old Republic MMO video game. This advanced class specializes in the use of dual lightsabers and dealing greater damage in battle. The three skill trees for this advance class are Carnage, Annihilation, and Fury. In the game, it is said that the Sith Marauder takes on the path of the Dark Lord of the Sith, Naga Sadow. The Republic counterpart for this archetype is the Jedi Sentinel. *Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic II: The Sith Lords *Star Wars: The Old Republic *Star Wars: The Old Republic Cartel Market *Star Wars: The Old Republic: Rise of the Hutt Cartel *Star Wars: The Old Republic: Shadow of Revan *Star Wars: The Old Republic: Knights of the Fallen Empire *Star Wars: The Old Republic: Knights of the Eternal Throne *Star Wars: The Old Republic: Onslaught *Star Wars: The Old Republic: Legacy of the Sith *Darth Bane: Path of Destruction *Darth Bane: Rule of Two *Star Wars: Clone Wars Adventures *Star Wars: Galaxy of Heroes *"The Betrayal of Darth Revan" *Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic II: The Sith Lords: Prima Official Game Guide *Knights of the Old Republic Campaign Guide *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia *Star Wars: The Old Republic Explorer's Guide *Book of Sith: Secrets from the Dark Side *Star Wars: The Old Republic Encyclopedia Marauder