57519
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Kras%27ka_Lo%27lar
Kras'ka Lo'lar
4603

Kras'ka Lo'lar was an individual who served in the security police on the planet Bothawui. At some point between 0 BBY and 1 ABY, the officer encountered the Aqualish Ponda Baba trashing a restaurant, ending when Lo'lar stunned Baba. A report of the incident was included in The Essential Guide to Alien Species, a guidebook with media acquired by Senior Anthropologist Mammon Hoole. thumb|right|250px|Kras'ka Lo'lar stunned Ponda Baba (pictured) on Bothawui. A security police officer on the world Bothawui, Kras'ka Lo'lar worked sometime between 0 BBY to 1 ABY. In that time,Ponda Baba's arm is removed in , the events of which are set in 0 BBY per The New Essential Chronology. Baba gains a cybernetic arm in Star Wars Galaxies, which is set from 0 ABY to 1 ABY per the reasoning here. Lo'lar entered a restaurant getting trashed by the Aqualish Ponda Baba as the establishment's patrons ran. Baba's partner, Doctor Cornelius EvazanStar Wars Character Encyclopedia tried to calm him, but the Aqualish punched him, throwing the doctor over to floor next to Lo'lar. The police officer set their blaster on stun and dispatched Baba with two shots. Running back to the Aqualish, Evazan gave Lo'lar a look of disgust, and asked why they shot him, reasoning that small things upset him as an Aqualish. Lo'lar asked the doctor what uspet him, and Evazan revealed that he had just told Baba that he had to wait on getting his arm fixed. Examining the Aqualish more closely, Lo'lar realized that Baba had only one arm, and the other was prosthetic. Lo'lar reported on the incident in a work titled Report 056.239. The report was used by Senior Anthropologist Mammon Hoole, alongside various other collected media, for in the book The Essential Guide to Alien Species, a guide on aliens published with the help of a professional writer in the time of the New Republic during or after 25 ABY. The report was included in the Aqualish section of the guidebook. Lo'lar used a blaster to stun Ponda Baba. Kras'ka Lo'lar was introduced in the 2001 reference book The New Essential Guide to Alien Species, written by Ann Margaret Lewis. *The Essential Guide to Alien Species Category:Individuals of unspecified gender Category:Individuals of unspecified species Category:Individuals with unspecified pronouns Category:Police