57657
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Phaa_Anor
Phaa Anor
6502

Phaa Anor was a male Yuuzhan Vong of the intendant caste and a relative of Nom Anor. Phaa Anor was a subordinate to Nom Anor, who acted as an advance agent in the galaxy, which the Yuuzhan Vong had targeted for invasion. Phaa Anor carried out duties on behalf of his relative during the invasion but came to believe that his superior was dead, as did the majority of Yuuzhan Vong, after Nom Anor disappeared following the disastrous defeat at the Battle of Ebaq 9 in 28 ABY. At Ebaq 9, Nom Anor promised the Yuuzhan Vong leadership a great victory, unaware that his intelligence sources were compromised, and was forced to disappear once he was confronted for his failure. Later that year, Phaa Anor was contacted by his relative, who asked him to deliver a message concerning the existence of a mysterious living planet to the ruler of the Yuuzhan Vong, Supreme Overlord Shimrra Jamaane. thumb|left|190px|Phaa Anor was the domain cousin of Nom Anor and later served under him. Born into Domain Anor, Phaa Anor was an intendant&mdash;the Yuuzhan Vong's caste of logistics and administrative experts. Phaa grew up in a crèche along with his domain cousin, Nom Anor, who later became his superior. The two Yuuzhan Vong maintained contact by means of a pair of villips, the organic communications devices of the Yuuzhan Vong. In 25 ABY,The Essential Reader's Companion the Yuuzhan Vong species initiated its invasion of another galaxy, having spent millennia traveling in the Intergalactic Void in search of a new home. During the resulting Yuuzhan Vong War, Phaa Anor's crèche cousin was tasked with destabilizing the New Republic, the major galactic government and the target of the Yuuzhan Vong fleet. Phaa Anor remained his crèche cousin's subordinate until three yearsThe Essential Reader's Companion dates the events of The New Jedi Order: The Final Prophecy to 29 ABY. As the novel establishes that the Battle of Ebaq took place a year prior to its events, it must have occurred in 28 ABY. into the war, when Nom Anor's failure to realize that his extensive spy network had been compromised led to a catastrophic Yuuzhan Vong defeat at the Battle of Ebaq 9. Supreme Overlord Shimrra Jamaane, the leader of the species, called for the skin of Nom Anor, who disappeared following the battle. After a year passed with no news of his superior, Phaa Anor, along with the majority of Yuuzhan Vong, assumed his relative to be dead. Thus, when Phaa Anor was contacted via villip by his crèche cousin, the intendant was shocked, and informed Nom Anor that he would have to report the conversation to Jamaane. To his mounting surprise, Anor was informed by his relative that he should in fact do exactly that, as Nom Anor claimed to have vitally important news for the Supreme Overlord. Phaa Anor was told to seek an audience with Jamaane, taking the message that Nom Anor was on the living planet Zonama Sekot&mdash;a legendary world greatly feared by the Supreme Overlord&mdash;along with Nen Yim, Jamaane's personal scientist, who had gone missing from the Supreme Overlord's palace some days previously. Phaa Anor was incredulous, but Nom Anor asked him to take the message, as well as the villip itself, to Jamaane, as quickly as possible and with the utmost secrecy. Skeptical, Anor asked why he should do what was demanded of him, but was won over by his former superior's reply&mdash;Nom Anor expected great rewards for sending the message, so Phaa Anor should therefore expect great rewards for delivering it. Carrying out his relative's request, Phaa Anor took the message, and the villip, to Supreme Overlord Shimrra Jamaane. Phaa Anor was loyal to the Yuuzhan Vong empire over his crèche cousin, and recognized his duty to his superiors. He was prone to both surprise and thoughtfulness, as well as ambition, drawn in by Nom Anor's suggestion that he would be rewarded for delivering the news on his crèche cousin's whereabouts. Phaa Anor first appeared via villip in Greg Keyes' 2003 novel The New Jedi Order: The Final Prophecy, which was part of the The New Jedi Order series. *The New Jedi Order: The Final Prophecy *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Domain Anor Category:Males Category:Yuuzhan Vong intendants