57612
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Tsyklen
Tsyklen
4396

Tsyklen were a sentient species native to the planet Tsyk in Hutt Space. The species had exceptional vision and nimble hands of nine digits each. The Tsyklen were considered wily, and the Hutt species saw them as a prized client species. During the Yuuzhan Vong War, the Yuuzhan Vong invaders attacked the Tsyklen homeworld. The Tsyklen were a sentient species from the planet Tsyk in the Tsyk system. &mdash; Based on corresponding data for Tsyk system They had at least one sex, female. They were round in shape with hairless, taut skin and had large eyes, which granted them exceptional vision. Tsyklen possessed particularly nimble hands, each of which had seven fingers and two opposable thumbs. Their digits were so long and delicate that they easily could be mistaken for tentacles. Tsyklen were considered crafty in nature.The Essential Atlas The Tsyklen homeworld was considered part of Hutt Space as early as 4000 BBY, and the species was counted as a prized client species by the Hutts, who controlled the region. Tsyk became a heavily polluted planet. During the Yuuzhan Vong War, in which the extra-galactic Yuuzhan Vong invaded and sought to conquer the galaxy from 25 ABY to 29 ABY,The New Essential Chronology the Yuuzhan Vong attacked Tsyk between 26 ABY and 27 ABY. By 27 ABY, Tsyk was held by the invaders. At some point after the Yuuzhan Vong's defeat at the end of 29 ABY, the planet reverted to being part of Hutt Space. It remained so in 137 ABY. At least one female Tsyklen left her homeworld. She was considered the best identification forger on the planet Nar Hekka in 5 BBY.The Essential Reader's Companion states that The Hutt Gambit is set in 5 BBY. That year, the Human smuggler Han Solo hired her to make false identification for him and his Wookiee partner, Chewbacca. Her manual dexterity and exceptional vision made her well suited to the career and allowed her to manipulate two holo-scribers at once. Tsyklen first appeared in The Hutt Gambit, a novel released in 1997 as the second installment of The Han Solo Trilogy, written by A. C. Crispin. *The Hutt Gambit *The Hutt Gambit abridged audiobook *The Essential Atlas Category:Hutt Space sentient species