57774
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Operation_Ram%27s_Head
Operation Ram's Head
8704

Operation Ram's Head was an operation devised and performed by the Rebel Alliance after the Battle of Yavin. Operation Ram's Head was conceived after flight data from the destruction of the BFF-1 bulk freighter Sarsuma suggested that a Star Destroyer could be disabled by ramming the bridge tower. The concept became more feasible after the defection of the Leafar and the capture of several TIE Avengers from an Imperial test base by the BFF-1 bulk freighter Ashanti. Study of the captured ships indicated that the Galactic Empire was experimenting on a new type of shield, designated the Shield X. thumb|left|210px|The Ram's Head, about to smash into an [[Imperial-class Star Destroyer/Legends|Imperial-class Star Destroyer's command tower.]] The Rebel Alliance decided to capture three Assault Gunboats, using the Lambda-class T-4a shuttle Leary to reach them and the MC80 Liberty type Star Cruiser Cathleen to collect them afterwards. The Assault Gunboats were used by the Alliance to infiltrate a secret Imperial base where the Shield X project was being conducted. There they captured the CR90 corvette Blade 5, which bore the mechanism. The corvette was renamed Ram's Head, and after final preparations by technicians from the corvette Libra, she was then sent to ram an array of Imperial-class Star Destroyers docked in the Imperial Drydock IV. The operation was a total success, as the Ram's Head caused enormous damage to each of the Star Destroyers by tearing apart their towers. It is unknown what happened to the Ram's Head as it was not destroyed and was seen traveling into space without a crew. This event is portrayed in Operations 18 through 20 in the Star Wars: X-Wing expansion, Imperial Pursuit. *Star Wars: X-Wing Tour of Duty: Imperial Pursuit *The Essential Guide to Planets and Moons *The Essential Chronology *The New Essential Chronology Category:Battles in the Greater Plooriod sector Category:Galactic Civil War campaigns