57808
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Blorga
Blorga
4611

Blorga was a gladiator who participated in free-for-all mortal brawls in the Cauldron arena, the largest combat pit on the planet Rattatak. During the final years of the Old Republic, Blorga fought in the Cauldron when Asajj Ventress entered the fray and ultimately emerged victorious over the other gladiators. Shortly after the outbreak of the Clone Wars,The New Essential Chronology Blorga fought in the Cauldron on Rattatak. It was the largest gladiatorial pit on the planet, filled with violent warriors, where war barons and generals sought out the best combatants who would win their wars. Therefore, Blorga, like many other gladiators, entered a deadly free-for-all battle,The New Essential Guide to Droids but it was a rare gladiator indeed who could survive multiple fights there. 300px|right|thumb|Blorga destroys a Bugnaught in The Cauldron During one battle, the Gamorrean fought the Aqualish Grunda Dolma and later destroyed a Bugnaught combat droid. When the Dathomirian Asajj Ventress entered the arena, Dolma and Blorga prepared to attack the newcomer; however, the Dathomirian used the Force to throw the pair back. Shortly afterward, the Gamorrean warrior stood alongside a group of gladiators, all of whom were defeated by Ventress. Blorga was a Gamorrean with green skin and red eyes. Gamorreans were dull-witted fighters, but what they lacked in speed they more than made up for in savagery. While in the Cauldron, Blorga wore two pauldrons, a metal helmet, a loincloth, and a chestplate. The gladiator fought with a double-spiked hammer. Blorga first appeared as an unnamed background character in the sixth chapter of Star Wars: Clone Wars, an animated television micro-series produced by Cartoon Network StudiosStar Wars: Clone Wars Volume One and originally aired on November 14, 2003. The character was later given a name in Ultimate Sticker Book: Star Wars: Clone Wars, a sticker book written by Simon Beecroft and released in 2004. *Star Wars: Clone Wars Cine-Manga *Ultimate Sticker Book: Star Wars: Clone Wars Category:Gamorreans Category:Individuals of unspecified gender Category:Individuals with unspecified pronouns Category:Gladiators