57822
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Geentech
Geentech
7151

|founding= |dissolved=Sometime between 19 BBY and 2 ABYIn Cynabar's Fantastic Technology: Droids, it is established that the legal battles between Geentech and the Genetech Corporation occurred under the auspices of the Galactic Empire, meaning that the court action could have began no earlier than 19 BBY, the date in which the Empire is established. Also in Cynabar's Fantastic Technology: Droids, the in-universe publication of Cynabar's Droid Datalog (version 4.7.1) is dated at 37:8:1:47 GrS, which equates to 2 ABY. By this point, Geentech is considered to be out of business. |affiliation= }} Geentech, also known as Geentech Laboratories, was a small medical research company that manufactured medisensors. In partnership with Industrial Automaton, the company produced the 2-1B surgical droid, which was considered to be the most commercially successful medical droid in the galaxy. However, name copyright issues with the larger Genetech Corporation forced the smaller Geentech out of business. Geentech, formerly known as Geentech Laboratories, was a small company that was involved in using medical droids to develop holistic gene therapy treatments, manufacturing medisensors, and droid production. Originally, Geentech was a subsidiary of Chiewab Amalgamated Pharmaceuticals Company, along with several other companies, including the Corellian Chemical Corporation, Chiewab Nutrition, Degan Explorations, and The Vernan Group. Eventually, though, Chiewab allowed the company to operate independently.The New Essential Guide to Droids While known as Geentech Laboratories, and under the control of Chiewab Amalgamated Pharmaceuticals Company, the company pursued gene therapy research and constructed medisensors. Eventually, Chiewab relinquished direct control and the company became independent, becoming known simply as "Geentech." In partnership with Industrial Automaton, Geentech developed the 2-1B surgical droid. The intelligent, flexible-thinking droid was a success with medical institutions across the galaxy, and was considered to be the first truly commercially successful surgical droid ever marketed. Several years after the debut of the 2-1B,The Essential Guide to Droids Geentech became entangled in a series of legal battles with the similarly named Genetech Corporation, a much larger droid manufacturer. Claiming copyright infringment based on the company's similar names, Genetech's lawyers tied Geentech up in expensive litigation, and the smaller company fought off corporate takeover attempts from their opponents. Eventually, the matter came to court during the reign of the Galactic Empire. With little interference from the Imperial Courts, Genetech won the litigation, and Geentech was forced into bankruptcy. Rumors circulated that the Empire had found in favor of Genetech due to the offer of discounts and trade inducements; these claims were, however, unsubstantiated. Genetech acquired all of Geentech's assets cheaply, apart from the rights to the 2-1B which were sold by Geentech to Industrial Automaton. Following the legal battle, Geentech ceased to exist. *The Star Wars Sourcebook *The Rebel Alliance Sourcebook *Dark Force Rising Sourcebook *Han Solo and the Corporate Sector Sourcebook *The Rebel Alliance Sourcebook, Second Edition *Cracken's Rebel Operatives *The Star Wars Sourcebook, Second Edition *Cynabar's Fantastic Technology: Droids *The Essential Guide to Weapons and Technology *The Essential Guide to Droids *Star Wars Roleplaying Game Core Rulebook *The New Essential Guide to Weapons and Technology *The New Essential Guide to Droids *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia *Star Wars: Edge of the Empire Core Rulebook *Star Wars: Age of Rebellion Core Rulebook Category:Droid manufacturers Category:Medical companies