57982
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Model_E_baby-sitting_droid
Model E baby-sitting droid
6173

Model E baby-sitting droids were designed by AccuTronics as a play-mate and a baby-sitter to young children. Model Es were small humanoid droids, standing less than a meter in height, and were designed to appear as non-threatening as possible. Constructed of durasteel which was coated in sturdy plastic, the droid's chassis was smooth and rounded. Each Model E had two arms and two legs which terminated in large feet. Large, bright light yellow photoreceptors dominated the head of the Model E, and their plating was brightly colored in hues such as red, yellow, green, blue, orange, and pink. They had an oversized head, with a cube-shaped personality matrix nestled inside and well-protected. The matrix was not sophisticated, but well suited to the Model E's role. It allowed the droid to accurately read the emotions of the children under its care and determined the best way to make friends. The droid's databanks were filled with information on thousands of children's games, sports, and hobbies, including Alderaan's Arch, zizzledy box, and Hound the Hawk-bat. They were also well equipped to educate, taking their charges on nature walks, supervising exercise, and they were fully capable of performing tasks including feeding, diaper changes, and even emergency medicine. The Model E's vocabulator was keyed to give the droids a genial and gentle voice. The unit was also capable of synthesizing the sounds of musical instruments, allowing them to provide accompaniment when singing songs they knew from numerous alien cultures. Model E droids were intended to interact primarily with young children, acting both as playmates and as secondary caregivers. They were therefore found mainly in schools and childcare centers, although many medcenters specializing in pediatric care had Model Es in their recovery wards. Psych-counselors utilized the non-threatening droids to put children suffering from trauma at ease. Wealthy parents were also known to purchase Model Es to act as companions for their offspring. Children fell in love with the squat droids, and would often become emotionally attached to their Model Es. As a result the droids were rarely subjected to memory wipes. Model Es were first produced well over a century prior to the Galactic Civil War. While long out of production by that time, a number of units were still operational and they had taken roles looking after the children and grandchildren of their original charges. If a number of Model Es served together, they often bonded and became inseparable. A year before the Invasion of Naboo the Republic Academy on Corulag had several Model Es stationed in the Science Service tower in order to baby-sit the children of Science Service scholars and employees. The droids helped the Jedi Mace Windu, Adi Gallia, Qui-Gon Jinn, Vel Ardox, Noro Zak, Obi-Wan Kenobi and the pilots Bama Vook and Leeper to evacuate the children from the tower during the Bartokks' attempt to destroy the Academy.Episode I Adventures 4: Jedi Emergency Three Model E droids&mdash;U-E, 2-E, and Q-E&mdash;operated a nursery in a town on the planet Kalarba. In 5 BBY,Star Wars Omnibus: Droids a local criminal and weapons manufacturer, Vuldo, attempted to coerce the three droids into building illegal blasters. Vuldo blasted U-E into pieces, and the other two droids were forced to obey although they managed to recover U-E's cognitive module and keep it safe. When Vuldo's scheme was foiled by C-3PO, R2-D2, and Nak Pitareeze, U-E's module was successfully implanted into the body of a hulking freight droid. *Episode I Adventures 4: Jedi Emergency *Droids (1994) 5 *The Essential Guide to Droids Category:AccuTronics products Category:Nanny droid models