58541
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Zovius_Mendu
Zovius Mendu
4200

Zovius Mendu was an infamous criminal on the planet Taris during the era of the Mandalorian Wars. By 3964 BBY, he had built enough of a reputation to have the Jedi Master Feln personally hunting him. Keen to find a way off Taris, Mendu enlisted local hood Marn Hierogryph to help him escape the planet&mdash;Hierogryph arranged to have Mendu shipped to the planet Corellia in an old escape pod disguised to look like a crate of dried dreeka fish. The plan was a success, and Mendu was thought to have disappeared. A well-known criminal and ne'er-do-well,Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic Handbook Zovius Mendu was a wanted man with a sizable bounty on his head on the Outer Rim planet of Taris by 3964 BBY. Mendu had a patrol actively searching for him, with no success&mdash;eventually they had to redouble their hunt, an event reported upon by the Taris Holofeed. In addition, Jedi Master Feln of the Tarisian Jedi Tower took the search for Mendu into his own hands. Needing a way off Taris, Mendu enlisted the help of local hood Marn Hierogryph, who worked up an escape plan. Hierogryph hired Arkanian mechanic Gorman "Camper" Vandrayk to refit an old escape pod into a shipping container. Disguised as a crate of dried dreeka fish, Mendu hid inside the container, which Hierogryph shipped to the planet Corellia. Hierogryph's plan was a complete success&mdash;a month later, former Jedi Padawan Zayne Carrick, who was acquainted with Feln, remarked that Mendu had mysteriously disappeared. Although he has never directly appeared in any Star Wars work thus far, the character of Zovius Mendu has been mentioned several times, first in The Taris Holofeed: Prime Edition, an in-universe news report that appears on the last page of the comic Knights of the Old Republic 0. Mendu is also mentioned in another such news report, The Adjudicator Special Report: The Outer Rim, along with the third issue of the Knights of the Old Republic comic series and the Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic Handbook. *Knights of the Old Republic 3 *Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic Handbook Category:Criminals Category:Individuals of unspecified species Category:Males Category:Tarisians