58889
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Vallikor_En-Vahdi
Vallikor En-Vahdi
3750

Vallikor En-Vahdi was a male Ipharian-Da'Lor bounty hunter who frequented the Glow Dome, a nightclub on Adarlon. He was extremely dangerous and possessed a set of Nullifier Energy Diffusion Armor, a power ancient artifact. The Galactic Empire had hired him to find members of the underground holovid group 'No-Holds-Barred' however he had a personal reason for frequenting the club. He had heard about the brilliant Dr. Lytos Urtell and hoped to steal a prototype personal holoprojector that would allow him to completely alter his appearance. Vallikor En-Vahdi was a male Ipharian-Da'Lor bounty hunter with an unknown past. At some point he acquired his Nullifier Energy Diffusion Armor which allowed him to become very effective in combat however where or how he recovered this ancient artifact is unknown. Like many other bounty hunters, he was dangerous, cruel, and sadistic. He enjoyed dealing out pain for his own amusement. He was also driven to become more dangerous as his personal quest for the prototype holographic projector put him at odds with an Imperial Security Bureau agent. He had grayish skin that could take on the coloration surrounding it providing natural camouflage. Typical of his species his lower body formed a long serpentine tail that had a retractable spike hidden in the tip. He wore an ancient suit of power armor that had black, carapace-like plates and a full-cover helm. The armor could emit a powerful force field that would loudly hum and crackle with energy. A dangerous combatant, En-Vahdi was especially skilled with using slugthrowers. He was highly skilled at both stealth and tracking and was very adept at disabling security measures. Interrogation was also a specialty of his. En-Vahdi's most prized possession was his suit of Nullifier energy diffusion armor. This one-of-a-kind artifact generated a force field insulating him from energy weapons such as blasters and lightsabers. He was not able to fire blasters through the force field while it was activated, so he usually carried slugthrowers and throwing knives. He did also carried a hold-out blaster for backup as well as a couple of medpacs Vallikor En-Vahdi was designed by Paul Danner and Bill Smith for Wretched Hives of Scum & Villainy, a supplement for the Star Wars: The Roleplaying Game that was published by West End Games in 1997. He was illustrated by Tom O'Neill. *Wretched Hives of Scum & Villainy Category:Bounty hunters Category:Ipharion-Da'Lors Category:Males