58976
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/U2-C1-series_housekeeping_droid
U2-C1-series housekeeping droid
5449

The U2-C1-series housekeeping droid was manufactured by Publictechnic and sold for commercial use as a janitor and maid. They were common sights throughout the galaxy and often fell beneath the notice of most individuals. This trait made the U2-C1 useful to criminal elements, who reprogrammed the droids to commit crimes. U2-C1-series housekeeping droids had a vaguely humanoid look, with two long, spindly legs holding up a frame cast in hardened blue plastic. Standing under a meter tall, the U2-C1 had a hunched look with a drooping head. The head was equipped with a optical slot, audio sensors, and a vocabulator that allowed the droid to communicate in Basic. The U2-C1's behavioral circuitry was located within the droid's head and neck. The bulk of the droid's torso was taken up by a waste-storage bin which could be emptied via a discharge hatch on the ventral surface. The main feature of the U2-C1 was its arms. Each was a powerful vacuum sweeper constructed of black flex-tubing that was attached to the torso and allowed the droid to vacuum up debris into its internal waste-storage bin. A U2-C1's right arm was also fitted with an attachment to clean upholstery, and the left arm was equipped with a stiff wire brush intended to remove persistent stains. To keep costs down, the U2-C1 was not designed to look aesthetically pleasing, and it was given simple utilitarian functionality as opposed to pleasant personality programming. Each unit retailed for seven hundred and fifty credits. Publictechnic designed the U2-C1 to cater to the commercial droid market, and it was not marketed directly to consumers. Its cheap and efficient nature meant that it was popular with hotel managers and janitorial services. Requiring little supervision, U2-C1s were often employed as janitors and maids, performing the same cleaning duties night after night. U2-C1s were often sold to medium-sized businesses in discounted "fleet sales." By the time of the Galactic Civil War, Publictechnic had very little issues with the U2-C1-series. User complaints of a serious nature were rare, and while the droid's external parts broke off easily, replacement parts were cheap and easy to obtain. Despite the droid's slightly sinister appearance, the U2-C1 was a common sight throughout the galaxy and did not attract undue attention. This trait led to the droid being exploited by criminals including thieves and gangsters. It was discovered that the housekeeping software in the U2-C1-series was easy to exploit often by redefining what the droid considered to be trash. A U2-C1 droid reprogrammed by criminals was ordered to enter hotel rooms and directed to use its vacuum sweepers to steal jewelry and credit vouchers from guests. Another U2-C1 vacuumed a timer bomb into its internal bin which subsequently exploded outside the office of a Corporate Sector executive. U2-C1, a U2-C1-series droid working in Jabba's Palace on Tatooine, was a spy and courier working for Jabba's rival, Lady Valarian. The droid would pass covert messages to other agents working for Valarian in the palace, including the Whiphid hunter J'Quille. To prevent anyone else from listening in to the messages, U2-C1 used the noise from its vacuum sweepers as cover. *The New Jedi Order: Agents of Chaos II: Jedi Eclipse *The New Jedi Order: Balance Point *The Essential Guide to Droids *Arms & Equipment Guide *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Cleaning droid models Category:Publictechnic products