59198
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Coruscant_Insurrection
Coruscant Insurrection
6152

The Coruscant Insurrection, sometimes referred to as the Invasion of Coruscant, was a battle in the Clone Wars that took place in 22 BBY. Count Dooku and one of his Dark Acolytes, Trenox, infiltrated Coruscant with an army of Separatist battle droids in a mission to destroy the Jedi Archives in the Jedi Temple. The invasion began during Anakin Skywalker's investigation on C-B3 cortosis battle droids on the planet Tatooine. Anakin was alerted to the conflict by Obi-Wan Kenobi, and he promptly flew back to Coruscant to assist the Galactic Republic and the Jedi Order against the sudden attack. He aided the Republic forces in defending the High City of Coruscant. Many ASN-121 assassin droids were utilized as battle droids during the invasion, terrorizing the civilians on the platforms and walkways while groups of B2 super battle droids attacked the interior of the upper level buildings. During the battle, Anakin met one of Count Dooku's Dark Acolytes, Trenox, and pursued him to the Coruscant underworld. They met at the Outlander Club where Trenox knocked Anakin back before escaping to the Jedi Temple. While in the Underlevels, Anakin met the Chiss bounty hunter Vandalor for the very first time. When asked for the whereabouts of Trenox, Vandalor informed him that he was probably busy attacking the Jedi Archives, before he walked away. With this information in mind, Anakin headed back to the Jedi Temple to find that the Separatist had indeed infiltrated the Temple. He proceeded to the Jedi Archives and confronted and killed Trenox, but was delayed long enough for Dooku to steal at least one Holocron and escape. General Obi-Wan Kenobi was wounded during the battle. Some of the Jedi, notably Barriss Offee, had trouble fighting the lightsaber-resistant cortosis battle droids that were deployed during the battle. Anakin learned that these cortosis droids could be easily sliced in half by slashing down upon the gap between the droids' breastplates. A trooper named Rom Mohc fought droids in personal combat and was later touted as a hero all over the HoloNet. Later, during the Galactic Empire, this would inspire Mohc to lead the Dark trooper project. This battle, coupled with the Sarapin blackout, left Coruscant's citizens no longer feeling safe from the war's ravages. *Star Wars: The New Droid Army *The New Essential Chronology *The New Essential Guide to Droids Category:Battles of Coruscant Category:Battles of the Rise of the Cortosis Battle Droids Category:Invasions