59165
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/R-10_household_droid
R-10 household droid
4741

Manufactured by the craftsman of Lovolan, the R-10 household droid was the perfect waiter and beverage-server, but it was expensive and normally only bought by the rich. The R-10 household droid was manufactured by Lovolan and were squat automatons that moved around on four wheels. The unit's brain was located on the droid's ventral surface with a single photoreceptor that allowed it to perceived its surroundings. The R-10 was fully capable of understanding verbal commands, but lacked a vocabulator and could not communicate in Basic. Marketed to the elite and wealthy of the galaxy, the R-10 was decorated by Lovolan craftsmen with polished greel wood panels, trimmed with antique brass fittings and green bronze plating. The design was topped off with inset imitation corusca gems. The R-10 was topped with an electronically charged marble serving tray that held glasses tightly in place and stopped them from being knocked over or from spilling the contents. The tray sat at a height of 0.72 meters off the ground, which was the perfect height for guests. Extra trays could be folded out from the body to increase the serving area for more drinks and appetizers. The droid possessed retractable manipulator arms at the front and rear. Each arm ended in a hand with two fingers and a padded velvet palm. The palm was covered in a slightly sticky adhesive that provided it with a delicate but firm grip. Coupled with the droid's hardwired programming, these features made it virtually impossible for the R-10 to spill or drop anything. Although accidents were rare, the R-10 was equipped with two cleaning appendages&mdash;a brush-tipped cleaning arm and a vacuum hose&mdash;hidden behind panels on the front of the droid. When an R-10 was sold, it was programmed with the complete blueprints of the new owner's residence, with particular attention paid to location of the kitchen, pantry, dining room, and wine cellar. R-10s served as waiters and drink servers for the wealthy, and it was a testament to the design and efficiency of the unit that despite its ostentatious-looking design it went virtually unnoticed as it carried out its duties. The R-10 was first produced at the behest of Emperor Palpatine. He wanted a droid to use in the pleasure palaces on Hesperidium, a resort moon in the Coruscant system. While the droid fit in perfectly with Hesperidium's aesthetics, some found its design to be ostentatious, superfluous, and over the top. With the success of the Hesperidium model, Lovolan followed up with a more subdued model that became popular among the wealthy aristocrats of the Senex and Tapani sectors. This model was covered in black marble with decorative brass rails. Roganda Ismaren, a former Emperor's Hand, maintained several R-10s within her residence on the planet Belsavis. Her son, Irek, used a cybernetic implant to control machinery and often practised by overriding the primary programming on the R-10s. *Children of the Jedi *Planet of Twilight *The Essential Guide to Droids *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Lovolan products Category:Service droid models