59493
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/3C-series_utility_droid
3C-series utility droid
4813

The 3C-series utility droid was a series of maintenance droid manufactured by Duwani Mechanical Products prior to the Dark Wars and in use at the same time as the T3-series utility droid. In the final year of the Dark Wars, one 3C-series unit, 3C-FD, helped utility droid T3-M4 repair the starship Ebon Hawk on Peragus but was later destroyed by an HK-50 series assassin droid. The 3C-series utility droid was manufactured by Duwani Mechanical Products sometime during the time period between the Jedi Civil War and the Dark Wars. Similar to the other Duwani-made utility droid models of the time, the 3C droid had four wheeled legs, of which the front two were attached to the droid's blocky chassis by rotating joints, allowing the droid to slide backward and forward to adjust the unit's height. Including the droid's flat rotating head, the unit stood 0.96 meters high. The droid's equipment included a multi-functional arm, auditory and sonar scanners, radar eye, and visual sensors capable of handling all base colors. Manufactured sometime before 3951 BBY,Knights of the Old Republic Campaign Guide one of these utility droids, 3C-FD, was on board the light freighter Ebon Hawk when the ship escaped from the Sith-infiltrated Republic cruiser Harbinger in that year. After their close escape, which resulted in the Ebon Hawk being badly damaged and drifting in space close to the Peragus Mining Facility, 3C-FD helped another Duwani-made utility droid, T3-M4, fix the ship. After their repairs, they piloted the Ebon Hawk to the mining facility, but before they docked the ship, 3C-FD was shot repeatedly and damaged beyond repair by an HK-50 series assassin droid unit that had been hiding in the damaged vessel. The only 3C-series utility droid in Star Wars Legends, 3C-FD, appeared in Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic II: The Sith Lords, a 2004 video game developed by Obsidian Entertainment. The 3C-series appears and functions similarly to the T3-series utility droid and uses a different colored sprite in the game. The New Essential Guide to Droids, a 2006 reference book written by Daniel Wallace, features an entry for 3C-FD, giving the technical data for this droid series. *Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic II: The Sith Lords *Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic II: The Sith Lords: Prima Official Game Guide *The New Essential Guide to Droids Category:Duwani Mechanical Products products Category:Maintenance droid models (class two)