61059
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Olag_Greck
Olag Greck
7701

|masters= |apprentices= }} Olag Greck was a businessman and later a crime lord who lived during the Imperial Era. Greck was a partner of Baron Pitareeze, when the Baron was trying to get his shipbuilding business off the ground. He betrayed the Baron, stealing his plans for the Pitareeze Cruiser while the Baron slept, and produced cheaper versions of it. He sold these claiming that they were his own original designs. When key components of Greck's ships failed, however, he begged for the Baron's help in fixing the flaws, but Pitareeze refused. Olag Greck then kidnapped the Baron's grandson, Nak Pitareeze and forced him to fix his ships. Greck's plan was foiled before the ships were fixed. C-3PO and R2-D2, who had come into the possession of the Pitareeze, helped stop several of his schemes. An angered Greck blamed the ship's failure on the Baron's intervention. Greck ran a series of illegal operations on or around Hosk Station. One such operation was the droid arena, where combat droids were pitted against one another. Earlier, he had foolishly had IG-88B brought to the station to fight in the arena. IG-88B humiliated Greck, stealing a ship and escaping from Hosk. Greck also reprogrammed C-3PX to work for him, though the droid was ultimately defeated by R2-D2. He was finally caught on Hosk, attempting to steal a load of ash ore. He planned to destroy the station to cover his escape. Unit Zed, along with C-3PO, R2-D2, and several other droids managed to prevent the detonation, but Greck still escaped. Unit Zed, C-3PO, and R2-D2 followed him to Nar Shaddaa, where he was going to meet with his acquaintance, Movo Brattakin. Damaged by Zed, Greck's ship crashed into the hangar where Brattakin was waiting, fatally injuring him. Brattakin's head of security and Greck's former associate Jace Forno threw Greck in jail for killing Brattakin. Grek escaped and went to Boonda's Palace to make a deal with the Hutt. It was here that C-3PO and R2-D2 caught up with him again, though little did they know that all that was transpiring was part of Movo Brattakin's plan. Brattakin's faithful droid, B-9D7, had extracted his master's brain from his dying body and transplanted it into his own cranium. He appeared at the palace, threatening to destroy it if anyone moved. It was then that Jace Forno arrived, and unfortunately for Brattakin, Forno betrayed him, decapitating his droid body with a blaster bolt. Greck tried to continue with his business with Boonda, but instead became Boonda's captive. Greck later escaped, and went underground for several years. Olag Greck turned up again on Corellia, where he earned a reputation as a disreputable businessbeing. He became the leader of the Greck, that was a gang that consisted of thugs hired by him. thumb|right|200px|Unused model of Olag Greck for Star Wars Galaxies, depicted as an [[Ishi Tib/Legends|Ishi Tib]] Olag Greck was mentioned in the 2003 video game Star Wars Galaxies, a massively multiplayer online roleplaying game developed by Sony Online Entertainment and published by LucasArts, prior to its closure on December 15, 2011. In the game, he was the leader of the eponymous faction but did not appear himself. Unused game files revealed that the developers planed at some point to introduce Olag Greck as a non-player character in Star Wars Galaxies. According to these files, introduced with the "Publish 28," on April 26, 2006, Olag Greck would have been present on Corellia and involved in a questline named "Tyrena - Lyman Zavala." In this quests, the player would have been tasked by CorSec Captain Dool and the Tyrena city councilmen Lyman Zavala to investigate the relationship between the Chirq Council and the Greck criminals. Olag Greck was intended to be the final boss to kill to conclude the questline. However, Greck is not known to have appeared on the game's live servers. Nevertheless, an emulated depiction pulled from this character's Interchange File Format reveals what he would have looked like if he were added to the game. *Star Wars: Droids Special *Droids (1994) 1 *Droids (1994) 2 *Droids (1994) 3 *Droids (1994) 4 *Droids (1994) 6 *Droids (1995) 1 *Droids (1995) 2 *Droids (1995) 3 *Droids (1995) 4 *Star Wars Missions 9: Revolt of the Battle Droids *Star Wars Missions 10: Showdown in Mos Eisley *Star Wars Missions 12: The Vactooine Disaster *The Essential Guide to Characters *The Essential Guide to Vehicles and Vessels *Star Wars Encyclopedia *The Essential Guide to Droids *C-3PO: Tales of the Golden Droid *Ultimate Adversaries *The New Essential Guide to Droids *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Businesspeople Category:Crime lords Category:Cut content from Star Wars Galaxies Category:Individuals of unidentified species Category:Males Category:Thieves