61295
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/It%27s_a_trap
It's a trap
5974

, , Star Wars Rebels: Spark of Rebellion, , , LEGO Star Wars: The Skywalker Saga, , , LEGO Star Wars: The Force Awakens, , The LEGO Star Wars Holiday Special, }} }} thumb|right|250px|Admiral Ackbar during his famous delivery of "It's a trap!" "It's a trap" is a famous phrase from Star Wars media used when a character learns or suspects they or another character are entering a trap. First spoken by Princess Leia in Cloud City to warn Luke Skywalker of a trap set up by the Darth Vader during the events of the 1980 film Star Wars: Episode V The Empire Strikes Back, the phrase gained popularity following Admrial Ackbar's delivery of the line during the events of the 1983 film Star Wars: Episode VI Return of the Jedi upon the admiral's realization that the Battle of Endor was an trap designed by the Galactic Empire. The phrase has since been used in other pieces of Star Wars media including Star Wars: The Clone Wars and Star Wars Rebels, with similar variations of the phase such as "it was a trap" and "this is a trap" also been used in similar contexts. }} The first instance of the phrase "it's a trap!" being used in Star Wars canon was in the 1980 film Star Wars: Episode V The Empire Strikes Back. In the film, upon Luke Skywalker's arrival to Cloud City, he spots his friends, whom he had come to rescue, being escorted by a group of Stormtroopers, which in reality was a trap meant to lure Skywalker to Darth Vader and allow the Jedi's capture. As a result, Luke attempted to free his friends from the stormtrooper escort, during which Leia, still in the stormtroopers' custody and aware of Vader's trap, tried to warn Luke of the trap by exclaiming the phrase twice, but Luke still followed the escort and was brought before Vader. The quote's next use was in the 1983 film Star Wars: Episode VI Return of the Jedi during film's climax of the Battle of Endor. During the battle sequences, the Emperor reveals to Luke that the Battle of Endor was a trap as Imperial ships arrived and alongside the Death Star II, surrounded the Alliance to Restore the Republic fleet. Upon the rebel Fleet Admiral Gial Ackbar being surrounded as the admiral ordered the rebel ships to take evasive action, Ackbar, realizing the fleet was caught in a trap, exclaimed the famous phrase. Following the film's release, Admiral Ackbar's delivery of the phrase grew in popularity, internet meme many years after the film's release. In one skit of the Robot Chicken: Star Wars special, Ackbar, in promotion of his cereal, bursts in on two children eating oatmeal. He slaps both of their bowls off the table while shouting, "It's a trap!" before handing them his branded cereal.Robot Chicken: Star Wars Ackbar's line can be heard over a hologram in "Return of the Return of the Jedi," the final episode of the non-canon animated television series LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures. Ackbar delivers a similar line in Star Wars Battlefront: Renegade Squadron when he says "We're trapped!" while in the hangar of a Star Destroyer during a mission to rescue him.Star Wars Battlefront: Renegade Squadron Ackbar nearly repeats his line in the novel Dark Apprentice, where, during an attack by Daala's forces, he recognized the strategy she was using and utilized an under-construction Mon Cal cruiser to ram her third star destroyer, lying in wait behind the moon. He explained this course of action to Leia, saying, "It is a trap."Dark Apprentice The line appears in Ewoks (1985) 2. Teebo, who has been captured by Zorbian space pirates, is about to be rescued by the other Ewoks. But when they go to untie him, he warns them, a moment too late, that "IT'S A TRAP!"Ewoks (1985) 2 Category:Star Wars culture