61423
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Meloria
Meloria
4445

Meloria was a female Human Jedi Knight who served the Jedi Order and the Galactic Republic during both institutions' final century. Meloria was a female Human born and raised on the planet of Corellia. Discovered to be Force-sensitive soon after her birth, Meloria was inducted into the Jedi Order to be trained in the ways of the Force. Meloria passed through her training half-heartedly; always resenting the fact that her destiny was supposedly predetermined. During her upbringing within the Order, she came to like the physical aspects of the Force above all else, and her quick reflexes and fighting prowess only grew as she immersed herself in martial studies. After a time, she was selected as a Padawan by a Jedi Master, who was greatly impressed with her extraordinary abilities. Following the path of a Jedi Guardian, Meloria gained the rank of Jedi Knight. Shortly after her graduation, however, her trust in her reflexes betrayed her. While attempting to arrest a bounty hunter, Meloria accidentally killed an innocent bystander. She became distraught and found herself unable to deal with the anguish; she severed all ties with the Jedi Order and vowed to never use the Force again. Meloria fled to the nearby planet of Drall, where she made her home within a cave on a small island in the Boiling Sea. She lived on the island alone for quite a while, farming the land to survive and becoming forgotten by the rest of the galaxy. Her isolation only served to deepen her sense of loss, and soon she settled upon a drastic decision. Now thirty years old, Meloria used the last of her savings to purchase a cryogenic hibernation capsule. Safe inside her cave, she then froze herself within the unit. Meloria knew that if the Force willed it, she would be free, but until that time, she'd remain in stasis. Meloria was a bitter woman who lacked dedication to teachings other than those of martial disciplines. She enjoyed nothing more than physical prowess and the honing of her exceptional reflexes. She was never fully committed to the teachings of the Jedi Order. Yet when she took an innocent life, even by accident, she felt a deep and terrible loss and became grim and withdrawn. Among the Force powers Meloria mastered during her time as a Jedi were Force speed, Force healing, Force empathy, and Force stealth. She also possessed stunning reflexes and was an able lightsaber combatant. *Coruscant and the Core Worlds Category:Corellians Category:Females Category:Former Jedi Category:Humans Category:Jedi Guardians Category:Post-Ruusan Jedi Knights