61763
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Oviedo_Engineering
Oviedo Engineering
9249

|associations= |parent= |subsid= |headquarters= |locations= |role=*Research-and-development organization *Military weapon systems manufacturer |products= |founding=Years before 22 BBYThe New Essential Chronology dates the First Battle of Geonosis to 22 BBY. |dissolved=Around 21 BBYThe events of "Honor Bound," which include Lorca Oviedo's death on Coruscant, are set approximately a year after the events of and therefore around 21 BBY per The New Essential Chronology. |affiliation=Confederacy of Independent Systems }} Oviedo Engineering was a large research-and-development organization that manufactured military vehicles and weapon systems. Led by Director General Lorca Oviedo, it expanded its corporate portfolio years before 22 BBY. Around 21 BBY, during the Clone Wars between the Confederacy of Independent Systems and the Galactic Republic, Oviedo allied himself with the Confederacy. While Oviedo traveled to the Republic's Core Worlds capital planet, Coruscant, his Consular-class cruiser and clone commando escorts were shot down by Separatist forces over the Expansion Region moon Asturias, crashing on the moon. While the Director General spoke with Separatist Wat Tambor via hologram, planning to return to the Republic and use its Senate's rearmament bill to task his industries with equipping the Republic's Army with weaponry, the commandos captured Oviedo. They brought him to Coruscant, where he died of respiratory failure. The Director General's treason resulted in the dismantling of Oviedo Engineering's operations. Oviedo Engineering was a vast research-and-development organization that manufactured military vehicles and weapon systems. thumb|right|300px|Director General Lorca Oviedo led Oviedo Engineering. Oviedo Engineering was founded years before the beginning of the Clone Wars, a conflict between the Confederacy of Independent Systems and the Galactic Republic, of 22 BBY, expanding its corporate portfolio and producing various military vehicles and weapon systems under Director General Lorca Oviedo's leadership. Around 21 BBY, Oviedo allied himself with the Confederacy, plotting to use the Republic Senate's rearmament bill to task his industries with equipping the government's Grand Army with the latest military vehicles and munitions. Separatist ForemanBoba Fett: A New Threat Wat Tambor sought to use the assignment to extrapolate the army's strength and deployment patterns to ambush the military's clone trooper forces. After Oviedo Engineering's director attended a conference on the Expansion Region &mdash; Based on corresponding data for Aviles Prime system astronomical object Aviles Prime, the Director General traveled to the Republic's Core Worlds capital planet, Coruscant. While en route to the planet, Oviedo's Consular-class cruiser and its clone commando escorts dropped out of hyperspace over the Expansion Region &mdash; Based on corresponding data for Asturias system moon of Asturias. A group of Separatist forces then attacked the cruiser and its escorts, sending them crashing down to the moon. After surviving the crash, Oviedo, surrounded by Separatist battle droids, met with Tambor via hologram; however, the commandos attacked the droid forces and captured the Director General. The Separatist foreman commanded the droids to leave no survivors and kill Oviedo if the commandos had the slightest chance of leaving Asturias, for he believed that the director's silence was of greater worth than his complicity. However, the clones left Asturias aboard the Consular cruiser with the director, bringing him to Coruscant. The Director General died of respiratory failure after arriving there, and Oviedo Engineering's operations were dismantled as a result of Oviedo's treason. Director General Oviedo was the organization's director. Oviedo Engineering first appeared in the flashbacks of Ian Edginton's comic story "Honor Bound," which was published by Dark Horse Comics on February 23, 2005 as part of the twenty-second issue of the Star Wars Tales comic-book series. The organization shares its name with Oviedo, the capital city of the Spanish region of Asturias. *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Arms manufacturing companies Category:Confederacy of Independent Systems corporations Category:Oviedo Engineering Category:Vehicle manufacturing companies