62194
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Thomork
Thomork
6059

A Core Worlds astronomical object, Thomork was the site of an Imperial Military shipyard. Shortly before the Battle of Endor, the facility produced Imperial-class Star Destroyers. Years before 10 ABY, the Empire spread the rumor that the Thomork shipyard was closed due to a hive virus outbreak and, to lend credence to the rumor, killed over 450 people there. The shipyard was then secretly re-opened and used for Imperial construction projects such as the first World Devastator superweapon. Thomork was an astronomical object located in the Thomork system, a part of the Southern Core portion of the Core Worlds. thumb|left|200px|Thomork served as the secret construction site of the first World Devastator. Shortly before the Battle of Endor of 4 ABY, Thomork was the site of an orbital shipyard the output of which was limited to Imperial-class Star Destroyers of the Galactic Empire. It was also the site of a colony. Years prior to 10 ABY,Dark Empire Sourcebook describes the state of the galaxy during the events of the Star Wars: Dark Empire comic-book series, which The New Essential Chronology dates to 10 ABY. the Empire spread the rumor that the shipyard at Thomork had been closed down due to an outbreak of a contagious new strain of hive virus. To add credence to the rumor, Imperial agents also killed more than 450 of Thomork's inhabitants. The colony was abandoned, and the Thomork system took on the reputation of a massacre site, eventually becoming as infamous as the Dagobah system of the Outer Rim Territories.The Essential Atlas In fact, the entire facility at Thomork was undamaged, and the Empire clandestinely re-opened the shipyard, taking it over for top-secret construction projects such as the Silencer-1, the first of the Empire's World Devastator superweapons. Thomork was first mentioned in the 1993 Dark Empire Sourcebook, which was authored by Michael Allen Horne and published by West End Games' Star Wars: The Roleplaying Game. The 2009 reference book The Essential Atlas placed the Thomork system, and therefore the celestial body Thomork, in grid square L-12. On a map included in the 2012 book The Essential Guide to Warfare, Thomork was erroneously labeled as "Tomark." The Essential Atlas had previously introduced that proper noun as the name of a star system in the Mid Rim, building off the name of the worldStar Wars: Imperial Handbook: A Commander's Guide Tomark II, which had been introduced in the "The Ando Project," a roleplaying game adventure published in November 1996 in the Star Wars Adventure Journal eleventh issue. *Dark Empire Sourcebook *Star Wars Encyclopedia *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia *The Essential Atlas *The Essential Guide to Warfare Category:Astronomical objects in the Core Worlds Category:Astronomical objects in the Southern Core Category:Galactic Empire astronomical objects