62534
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Raid_on_Fest
Raid on Fest
6594

The Galactic Republic undertook a raid on Fest against Confederacy of Independent Systems' phrik refining factory on the Outer Rim Territories planet Fest. A Null-class Advanced Recon Commando discovered the facility in 22 BBY, ten months after the First Battle of Geonosis started the Clone Wars. Omega Squad, a group of four Republic commandos in new, black "stealth" armor, was dispatched to the snow planet and, fighting its way through droid defenders, destroyed the factory with no casualties; the clone RC-8015 recorded the success in his journal. thumb|left|300px|The clone commandos of Omega Squad (pictured) were dispatched to carry out the raid against the Fest facility. In 22 BBY, a single Null-class Advanced Recon Commando&mdash;one of only a dozen such troopers bred by Kaminoan cloners and utilized for the Grand Army of the Republic's Clone Intelligence&mdash;discovered a Confederacy of Independent Systems factory on the planet Fest, located in the Atrivis sector of the Outer Rim Territories. In 14:3, ten months after the First Battle of Geonosis, which started the Clone Wars between the CIS and Republic, the Republic chose the commando unit Omega Squad to destroy the facility, despite having just issued them stealth Katarn-class commando armor; while being extra tough, the armor was colored black, making it inopportune for an arctic mission. Composed of four Republic clones, each the sole survivors of other, decimated squads, the unit was led by Niner, RC-1309. Omega Squad's mission was to destroy the Separatist facility, which was developing a new supermetal known as phrik. The mission was considered simple by the clones themselves: they planned to infiltrate the facility, lay charges in its processing plant and foundry, and then escape the plant before detonating the explosives. Beginning the raid, the four clones were dropped planetside in a gunship, in the lee of an outcrop overlooking the facility. After brief reconnaissance, Omega Squad commando Fi, designated RC-8015, used a PLX-1 portable missile launcher to attack the droids, while his companions, Atin and Darman&mdash;designated RC-3222 and RC-1136, respectively&mdash;worked their way up to higher ground to infiltrate the factory. The clones continued with their mission, eventually completing it with no casualties. Fi later recorded the mission in his private journal. The Galactic Empire&mdash;the post-Clone Wars successor to the Republic&mdash;later restarted phrik testing and refining on Fest as part of their Dark Trooper Project. Their Weapons Research Facility was infiltrated by a Rebel Alliance operative named Kyle Katarn, and later destroyed by the Alliance's Rogue Squadron in a separate engagement.Star Wars: Rogue Squadron The raid on Fest appeared in Republic Commando: Triple Zero, a 2006 novel written by Karen Traviss. While not directly appearing in the novel, the beginnings of the incident were related as the private journal of RC-8015, included as the prologue of the novel. *Republic Commando: Triple Zero Category:Battles of Fest Category:Missions of the Clone Wars