62523
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Oodoc
Oodoc
4685

Oodocs were a sentient species known for their great size and strength but not their intelligence. They had spiked arms and backs and massive torsos. In 17 ABY, a number of Oodocs on Coruscant and the asteroid Skip 1 were affected by the Almanian Uprising, during which the Almanian dictator Kueller exploded droids across the galaxy to destabilize the New Republic. The Oodocs were a sentient species renowned for their large size and strength. They had massive chests, spikes across their arms, and pointed spines up their backs.A Guide to the Star Wars Universe, Third Edition, Revised and Expanded Oodocs were commonly regarded as dim-witted. The Oodoc species was present in the galaxy beyond their homeworld from at least 17 ABY. That year, an Oodoc was at the Crystal Jewel casino on Coruscant when explosions rocked the Imperial Palace nearby. The shockwave threatened to collapse the ceiling of the casino, so many of the patrons tried to flee. However, the Oodoc pulled shut the door, believing it was safer to stay inside. Han Solo, a hero of the New Republic, was at the Crystal Jewel at the same time. Fearing the explosion might block escape from the underground casino, he shoved the Oodoc aside, shooting the door lock with his blaster. While the blaster bolt did break the lock, it also deflected into the back of the Oodoc. The large being tried to grab Solo but missed when the Human was carried away in a tide of escaping patrons. A short time later that year, a number of Oodocs were present on Skip 1, an asteroid located in Smuggler's Run, an asteroid belt on the edge of Wild Space that had harbored smugglers and other criminal elements for hundreds of years. A number of droids detonated throughout the asteroid, injuring many sentients. Among them were several Oodocs who had their spikes blown off. These injured Oodocs were loaded aboard the Lady Luck&mdash;a pleasure yacht owned by the Human gambler Lando Calrissian, who was visiting the Run as part of an investigation for Han Solo&mdash;and flown out of the asteroid field to receive medical care. Those two explosions were linked: Kueller, a dictator on the planet Almania, had rigged explosives in hundreds of droids to kill senators on Coruscant as part of his plan to destabilize the New Republic and take control for himself. None of those Oodocs were intended targets; they were merely in the wrong place at the wrong time. The Oodoc species was created by Kristine Kathryn Rusch for her novel The New Rebellion, published in 1996. *The New Rebellion *Star Wars Encyclopedia *A Guide to the Star Wars Universe, Third Edition, Revised and Expanded *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Sentient species