63198
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Flirt
Flirt
3022

thumb|Flirt's later form: the body of an [[X10-D draft droid]] Flirt was Chenlambec's personal handheld translator. Externally, she looked like a small decorative silver cube, but she was actually a positronic processor, too small to actually be considered a droid. She was a one-of-a-kind illegal creation, designed and built by a friend of Chenlambec, who had been slain. Flirt was programmed to infiltrate and seduce computer systems into cooperating with her and was able to open data streams, override commands with those from her master, and completely shut down security systems if she was able to seduce the computer she was accessing. More importantly, she was able to do this without having to jack into an information socket. The first centimeter of space under her titanium covering was layered with a powerful sensor/antenna winding that allowed her to access any computer from any sort of port the computer had a connection to, including regular power ports. However, because of the way she seduced computers, it often meant that Flirt could take a long time accomplishing tasks that other droids or programs might be able to do quickly. At the same time though, Flirt was able to break into almost any sort of intelligent system, given the time. Equipped with an enthusiastic and verbose personality and a shrill female voice, Flirt would hum tunelessly while working. If she stayed silent, she would look like a decorative ornament, especially when hooked to Chenlambec's bandolier, which had other decorative silver cubes in order to disguise Flirt. After Chenlambec and his partner Tinian I'att captured Bossk and took the Hound's Tooth, Flirt took the body of the large and powerful but essentially mindless X10-D as her own to move herself around and operate. *The Essential Guide to Droids *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Custom-built droids Category:Droids with feminine programming Category:Droids with she/her pronouns Category:Slicer droids