63295
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Vengeance_(Oovo_IV)
Vengeance (Oovo IV)
2728

250px|thumb|The podrace course Vengeance was a podracing course on Oovo IV and the sixth race of the Amateur Podracing Circuit. Providing most of the entertainment for the prisoners of Desolation Alley, this dangerous race gave racers a unique experience of flying free of gravity through the gravity tubes. The race began with a crescent-shaped arena, which immediately threw racers into the depths of Oovo IV and a run through tunnels at high speeds with dangerous girders in the center. Then, the race continued along a long bridge which opened up to the searchlights of Desolation Alley which were looking for any escaping convicts. Soon after, pilots were forced to navigate through giant fan blades at over six hundred miles per hour. Not long after, they were sent through the first of many antigravity tubes, which were littered with raw ore. thumb|left|150px|Vengeance Next, the tube opened up to a massive room with free-floating ore: the reactor core of the facility. The filament would sever the magbeam holding the engines together, which racers had to dodge, and reenter the tubes. Again, the tubes opened up to massive towers, which racers had to dodge or suffer excessive collateral damage, which may have included their lives. Another shot from the antigravity tubes and the racers were shot out back onto the surface, where they had to navigate the straightway back to the arena. The avenues which divided the cell blocks were very wide, so racers with high top speed and cooling ratings would excel on this course. This course was the sixth race in the Amateur Podracing Circuit tournament. Fud Sang *Lap Time: 01:16.880 *Race Time: 03:51.921 *Galactic Circuit track: Executioner *Invitational Circuit track: The Gauntlet *Star Wars: Episode I Racer *Star Wars: Episode I Racer: Prima's Official Strategy Guide *Star Wars: Episode I Racer Official Nintendo Player's Guide Category:Podracing courses