64059
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Beta-class_ETR-3_escort_transport
Beta-class ETR-3 escort transport
5431

The Beta-class ETR-3 escort transport was a medium-sized troop transport vessel produced by Telgorn Corporation. Well-armed for its size, its four turbolasers and dual proton-torpedo launchers made it a formidable adversary for a lone starfighter. Furthermore, its frontal armament of general-purpose warhead launchers (usually fitted with proton torpedoes), laser cannons and ion cannons made it capable of assaulting or capturing capital ships and space stations. Although not as swift as a starfighter, its top speed was comparable with all but the highest-performance cargo and troop transports. Despite being more than twice as large, with all these features&mdash;especially the evasive capabilities&mdash;ETR-3s were reminiscent of the Clone Wars&ndash;era LAAT/i. The ETR-3 was a further development of the Gamma-class ATR-6 assault transport. The ETR-3 retained the ATR-6's main hull, giving it approximately the same size and troop-carrying capacity. However, the ETR-3 carried an additional dorsal pod, reintroduced forward-firing laser cannons, and had stronger shields and armor. Nonetheless, the ETR-3's improvements were not a significant advantage over the ATR-6, which remained the mainstay in the forces of the Imperial Navy. It was also designed to escort construction vessels when establishing planetary outposts on unpacified worlds. With the capacity for carrying up to 40 troops, it was able to transport an entire squad of speeder bikes. The ETR-3's sturdy design, suitable for both military and civilian activities, made it popular throughout the galaxy. Capable of significant modification, the craft took on a variety of roles from simple transport to a platform for testing Admiral Zaarin's TIE Experimental Project of advanced and new technology. Later on, the ETR-3 became a mainstay of Death Squadron and the transport was notable for engaging Alliance Starfighter Corps Squadrons during the Battle of Endor. *Star Wars: TIE Fighter Collector's CD-ROM *Star Wars: X-Wing Alliance *Star Wars: X-Wing vs. TIE Fighter: Balance of Power Campaigns *Imperial Sourcebook, Second Edition *TIE Fighter Collector's CD-ROM: The Official Strategy Guide *Star Wars: X-Wing Alliance: Prima's Official Strategy Guide *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Starship classes of the Galactic Empire Category:Telgorn Corporation products Category:Troop transport starship classes