64582
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Ooglith_cloaker
Ooglith cloaker
4170

An ooglith cloaker was a creature bioengineered by the Yuuzhan Vong to function as an organic environment suit. Ooglith cloakers were bioengineered creatures employed by the Yuuzhan Vong as organic environment suits that could protect the wearer from freezing temperatures, water pressureThe New Jedi Order: Vector Prime and the vacuum of space.The New Jedi Order: Edge of Victory II: Rebirth The cloaker was pulled over the wearer's feet, where it then extended up the body. As it did so, the cloaker would insert thousands of tiny tendrils into the wearer's pores. The process was painful for the wearer. The cloaker covered the wearer's face, but was transparent around the face,The Essential Guide to Alien Species allowing the Yuuzhan Vong to display the glory of their wearer's disfigurements. Removing the cloaker was achieved by pressing a hidden organ. This could be triggered by anyone, not just the wearer, which did allow enemies to start the removal process during a fight. The cloaker was closely related to the ooglith masquer, and often used in conjunction with the gnullith which was latched over the wearer's face and allowing them to breathe. Yuuzhan Vong Yorik-et pilots wore ooglith cloakers while flying their vessels. A variant of the ooglith cloaker created a simple transparent bubble around an individual's head. This gave an individual a limited amount of atmosphere while in space.The New Jedi Order: Enemy Lines I: Rebel Dream Prefect Da'Gara and the Yuuzhan Vong under his command used ooglith cloakers to operate underwater while establishing a Yammosk on the planet Helska IV. The cloaker protected the Yuuzhan Vong from the freezing cold temperatures and pressure of the water. Yuuzhan Vong captives Danni Quee and Miko Reglia used stolen ooglith cloakers in an attempt to escape from Da'Gara's worldship. Jedi Knight Jacen Solo wore a captured ooglith cloaker during his mission to Helska IV. *The New Jedi Order: Vector Prime *The New Jedi Order: Agents of Chaos II: Jedi Eclipse *The New Jedi Order: Edge of Victory II: Rebirth *The New Jedi Order: Enemy Lines I: Rebel Dream *The New Jedi Order: Destiny's Way *The New Jedi Order: The Final Prophecy *The New Jedi Order: The Unifying Force *Star Wars Roleplaying Game Core Rulebook *The Essential Guide to Alien Species *The New Jedi Order Sourcebook *The New Essential Guide to Weapons and Technology *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia *Galaxy of Intrigue Category:Yuuzhan Vong technology