65449
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Tusken_Canyon
Tusken Canyon
4827

}} Tusken Canyon was a rocky canyon located in the Jundland Wastes, on the planet Tatooine The Tusken Canyon was a craggy canyon located in the Hubba Heights, a mountainous area within the Jundland Wastes on the planet Tatooine. It was home to Tusken Raiders, the canyon had little other life, but massiffs, scurriers and krayt dragons were known to inhabit the canyon as well. At one point, there were even rumors that a feeding hole for the sarlacc that inhabited the Great Pit of Carkoon had surfaced deep in the canyon. Tusken Canyon was once a thriving settlement until Tusken Raiders destroyed it and closed off the area to outsiders. The ruins of the long-abandoned settlement were overlooked by Fort Tusken. thumb|right|220px|Jango Fett fighting in the Tusken Canyon In 32 BBY, the bounty hunter Jango Fett traveled through the Tusken Canyon during a mission to infiltrate Gardulla the Hutt's palace. Fett had to fight many Tusken Raiders and even claimed bounties for some of them, namely Orr Agg R'orr, Grk'Urr'Akk, UrrOr' Shurk and Orrh Or'Ur. As the bounty hunter penetrated deeper in the canyon and approached Gardulla's palace, he encountered Gardulla's henchmen who patrolled the area in Bantha-II cargo skiffs. After defeating most of them and claiming the bounties for Yo-Hann Innk, Oosk Kassa, Drossk, Linjak Mosa, Keejik Ganz and Hakma Kinto, Jango Fett arrived at the palace and was able to successfully enter the building. The bounty hunter then confronted the Hutt crime lord for her association with the Bando Gora. In the days prior to the Battle of Yavin, during the Galactic Civil War, Luke Skywalker and C-3PO caught the fleeing droid R2-D2 in the Tusken Canyon after the latter escaped from the Lars homestead. They were then attacked by Tusken Raiders but were soon rescued by Obi-Wan Kenobi who had his home in the neighborhood. A short time later, a group of Rebel Alliance operatives visited the Tusken Canyon during their mission to evacuate Adar Tallon from Tatooine. *Star Wars: Bounty Hunter *Tatooine Manhunt *Star Wars: Bounty Hunter: Prima's Official Strategy Guide *Inside the Worlds of Star Wars Trilogy *Star Wars: Complete Locations Category:Canyons Category:Tatooine locations Category:Tusken Raider culture