66526
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Loh%27khar
Loh'khar
6000

*Alliance to Restore the Republic *New Republic **FarStar |masters= |apprentices= }} }} Loh'khar the Finder was a Twi'lek free-trader and procurement specialist. He was a member of the crew of the FarStar during its hunt for Moff Kentor Sarne. He had the uncanny ability to source virtually any item needed in a matter of minutes to a few hours, depending on the item. Loh'khar claimed to have escaped from Ryloth, fleeing a clan conspiracy directed against him. Acquiring a light freighter, he became a galactic salesman who imported and exported goods from countless planets. He would settle on planets and create buying networks to help him acquire the goods he needed, basing himself near urban centers of starports. Eventually, he would move on to another location and repeat the process. During one such transaction, he acquired three Turazza eggs. The eggs hatched, and three Turazza sisters emerged and bonded with Loh'khar. Naming them Rizzal, Vizzal, and Nizzal, the three sisters worked for him, running errands and collecting information. During the Galactic Civil War, he profited from trading with both the Galactic Empire and the Rebel Alliance. He was responsible for assisting in the extraction of a Rebel infiltration team led by Thella from Kelada by arranging transport off the planet via Platt Okeefe and the Last Chance. Business was slower under the New Republic, but not unprofitable. Trading out of his light freighter, Loh'khar stopped on Kal'Shebbol. He attempted to deal with Moff Sarne, only to have Sarne steal his freighter. Thankful for not being imprisoned, he set up a shop in the main starport, trading with the few freighter pilots who used the port. When the New Republic announced they were looking for a crew to man the FarStar, Loh'khar applied to Lieutenant Judder Page. Page rejected him, feeling that he had no skills relevant to the mission. However, when he just happened to procure heavy-duty turbolaser power capacitors that the FarStar needed, he managed to convince the New Republic his skills and diplomatic talents would be useful. Loh'khar kept tabs on everyone and everything. Through subtle manipulations, rumor-spreading and blackmail, he was canny at making arrangements behind the scenes while still appearing to be honest and noble. Confident and calm, Loh'khar arranged many deals simply to have people owe him favors that he would call on later. The three Turazza sisters bonded to Loh'khar as their "parent" and he raised them since birth. They were fiercely loyal to the Twi'lek, and acted as his messengers and agents in his dealings. Some said that they had even formed some type of telepathic or empathic bond with each other. *The DarkStryder Campaign *The Kathol Outback *The Kathol Rift *Endgame *Platt's Smugglers Guide *The Essential Reader's Companion Category:Businesspeople Category:Criminals Category:FarStar crewmembers and personnel Category:Males Category:Twi'leks