68154
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Pinook_fighter
Pinook fighter
5600

The Pinook fighter was a starfighter manufactured by Joraan Drive Systems. thumb|left|A flight of Pinooks on patrol near a barren moonlet. Compared to other starfighters in service during the time of the Galactic Civil War, the Pinook was underpowered, undergunned, poorly shielded, and inadequately armored. A worse than average craft all around, its only favorable quality was its better-than-average maneuverability, although it was still outperformed by a Z-95 Headhunter in this respect. In a one-on-one dogfight with a TIE/LN starfighter, only a lucky hit by the Pinook would prevent its quick annihilation. While somewhat faster than the venerable Y-wing, it had none of that craft's rugged durability. With a hull that was weaker than a TIE/IN interceptor's, and shields only half as powerful as a T-65 X-wing starfighter's, the Pinook was not a good match for modern starfighters. The design of the Pinook fighter was hampered by Imperial regulations on its armament and power plant. Since the board of directors of Joraan Drive Systems were not significant supporters of the New Order, they were unable to convince Imperial inspectors to let them sell the Pinook to allies of the Empire. Furthermore, they were required to adhere to civilian combat restrictions rather than building the fighter to the intended military specifications. The Pinook was therefore one of the few starfighters that was outperformed by the uglies that were commonly found in the hands of cash-strapped smugglers, bandits and pirates, even in a factory-fresh condition, a fact which was regularly ridiculed by the public. The Pinook was able to see limited success as a training vessel due to its low cost, but no organization that used them expected anyone piloting a Pinook fighter to do anything more than send an alarm about enemy forces before being destroyed. The ship remained so unpopular with the galaxy at large that Joraan Drive Systems was forced to construct starfighters for criminal organizations, like the infamous Black Sun, to avoid bankruptcy. thumb|left|"Planetary Fighter" concept art. The model file for the Pinook fighter is named PIGGYBACK.OPT, which corresponds to the original design concept created by Totally Games artists. The Pinook was originally the Planetary Fighter, and was mated to a booster engine. The Pinook was separated from the booster due to game engine constraints, and the Planetary Fighter name was reassigned to a totally different design.Rogue Leaders: The Story of LucasArts *Star Wars: X-Wing Alliance *Star Wars: X-Wing Alliance: Prima's Official Strategy Guide *Rogue Leaders: The Story of LucasArts *Rebellion Era Campaign Guide Category:Joraan Drive Systems products Category:Starfighter classes