68752
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Bergruutfa_Clan
Bergruutfa Clan
4361

The Bergruutfa Clan was one of the many clans that prospective young Initiates were placed in when they first began to learn the ways of the Jedi Order. Members of the clan were selected based on their predisposition to be loyal to others and being true to their heart when in darkness. Once a member of the clan, the students would travel together through the academy at the Jedi Temple until the time they graduated. Named after the enormous bergruutfas of Teloc Ol-sen, this clan was stationed at the Jedi Temple following the Ruusan Reformation of the Galactic Republic. Shortly before the Clone Wars, the Bergruutfa clan's teaching was overseen by the Abyssin Jedi Master Quarmall and its members were largely Human, with the inclusion of a Whiphid, Zabrak, Kel Dor, Duros, Togruta and a Nautolan. In 20 BBY, the group was in transit aboard a Mon Calamari starship when they were attacked by General Grievous and a Separatist fleet. The ship took heavy fire and the ship was boarded by Grievous and his legions. While Master Quarmall did his best to defend the Initiates, he was left for dead while the cyborg took off with the younglings. thumb|left|250px|The Initiates fight their way out. Landing on CIS-conquered Belsus aboard a C-9979 landing craft, the clan was shepherded off to a holding cell to await for Grievous' orders. In fact the cyborg planned to deliver the group to his master, Darth Sidious, for conversion into dark side warriors. The group was freed from the cell by an Ugnaught miner and made their way to the Ugnaught shelters near the planet's geothermal power plants. Grievous quickly discovered their locations and ordered their capture and execution; however he was foiled once more by a trio of Jedi set on assassinating him. As Master B'dard Tone and Knight Flynn Kybo dueled the Kaleesh cyborg, Padawan Codi Ty rounded up the Padawans and made for their escape shuttle. Ty returned to the Temple, both Tone and Kybo dead, and handed the clan over to the Jedi High Council. One of the clan's brightest students, Allara begged the Council to forgive Ty's disobedience but was ignored as the Council exiled Ty from the Order. *General Grievous 1 *General Grievous 2 *General Grievous 3 *General Grievous 4 *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia *The Jedi Path: A Manual for Students of the Force Category:Jedi clans