68847
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Mazariyan
Mazariyan
4830

Mazariyan was a Separatist fortress on Xagobah designed by the Techno Union to serve as the personal citadel of Wat Tambor. The creation of the Mazariyan Citadel involved the merging of sophisticated Techno Union technology and bioengineered native fungal lifeforms. The result was a structure that could be considered a living organism. Wat Tambor twisted the evolution of Xagobah's life-forms by taking benign fungi that fed only on bacteria and transforming them into perverted monstrosities with insatiable bloodlust. At first glance, the citadel's exterior looked like a dull black step pyramid similar to those found on Yavin 4. Its smooth surface pulsed with life and arcs of lightning ran up and down its sides. Long, black spines extruded from its surface that were able to protract and retract to impale outsiders that got too close. Its battlements were lined with defensive droids and cannon emplacements. The entrance to the fortress was a large triangular-shaped opening at its base that was capable of expelling thousands of droids onto the battlefield. Surrounding the door were razor-sharp blades of ringed fungus and long spines that jutted out of the ground.Boba Fett: A New Threat The interior of Mazariyan was a fusion of biological and inorganic components. Its fungus-covered metal halls were illuminated by luminous mushrooms bioengineered to merge with metal and plasteel circuitry. Nanotechnology and biological circuits were used to fuse computer intelligence with the semi-intelligence of the bioengineered fungus that made up the fortress. Microscopic nanotechs immediately repaired any cracks or fissures that formed due to outside attacks. Many chambers branched off of the main hall and staircase such as one that contained Xamster and clone prisoners trapped in fleshy walls who struggled in vain as the living fortress fed off their fluids. Another chamber looked like the interior of a Human heart and pulsed in and out slowly. Deeper in the fortress, Xabar fungus grew from the wall and paralyzed intruders with the neurotoxins emitted from the tendrils. At the center of the living fortress was a large chamber that was shaped more like a cavern than a room. In this location were numerous circuits that were covered with banks of monitors. Thrusting from the floor was a huge shapeless purple mass which pulsed and shuddered in a manner similar to a massive slime mold. Dozens of tentacle-like tubes which pulsed with a darkly glowing violet liquid stream that moved outwards into the walls. Other veins that rippled with a deep red color siphoned bodily fluids from ensnared intruders directed them into the bioengineered nerve center to fed the organic construct. This represented the fact as to why many individuals that went into the Mazariyan never returned as it devoured them to feed itself. Used up bodies were disposed of in a separate incinerator chamber. Below the fortress were massive stores that contained the thousands of droids used to defend it. The fortress was besieged by the Galactic Republic during the Outer Rim Sieges of the Clone Wars. Republic forces focused their attack on the main entrance and entrenched themselves in front of it. Unable to breach the fortress's walls due to its self-healing properties, the attacking generals tasked multiple ARC troopers with infiltrating the citadel. These troopers were inevitably detected and incapacitated by the fortress's biological security mechanisms before being fed to Mazariyan. After weeks of sustained assault, the fortress eventually fell when ran out of droids and sustained more damage than its nanotechs could repair. Boba Fett was one of the few to escape Mazariyan in 19 BBY.Boba Fett: Pursuit *Boba Fett: A New Threat *Boba Fett: Pursuit *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Biological structures Category:Buildings Category:Confederacy of Independent Systems locations Category:Techno Union locations