68954
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Mission_to_Nar_Shaddaa_(Empire_Reborn)
Mission to Nar Shaddaa (Empire Reborn)
6284

The Mission to Nar Shaddaa was a mission conducted by Kyle Katarn, who had just regained his Force powers. Waging a personal war against the Empire Reborn, whom he held responsible for the supposed death of Jan Ors, he wanted to find Reelo Baruk, who could give him information about the Dark Jedi Desann. Based on appropriate information, he could begin his quest for Desann. thumb|left|Baruk's Bar|212x212px Katarn visited a bar, in which he was stripped of all weapons, except his lightsaber. He moved around the bar, trying to ask some questions of the patrons. However, he was met only with hostility, and eventually walked up to the bartender, a grammatically challenged Chiss. Just as it seemed Katarn's questioning was getting him somewhere, the bartender threw Katarn a line and sealed the bar, prompting the bar's patrons&mdash;who all appeared to be thugs in the employ of Baruk&mdash;to attack him. Katarn defeated them easily with his newly restored Force powers, and confronted the bartender again. Terrified, the Chiss told Katarn that he should follow the garbage haulers in the upper levels where Baruk had his hideout. Katarn left the bar and proceeded onto the higher level of the street. On his way up, he encountered several of Baruk's thugs, who tried to stop him. Eventually he infiltrated Baruk's hideout by hiding in one of the city's many garbage collection repulsor sleds. thumb|left|[[Nar Shaddaa/Legends|Nar Shaddaa streets where the mission took place|200x200px]] Inside the holdout, which outwardly appeared to be a simple garbage processing facility, Katarn navigated various hazards, including a smelter and a cavernous storage area. He ran into a security door that led to Baruk's hideout but required a password to enter. After some more searching, he eventually met Lando Calrissian, who was imprisoned by Baruk's thugs. Katarn asked Calrissian if there were any way to deactivate his prison cell force field. Calrissian told him that it could only be deactivated from Baruk's command center. Luckily, Calrissian knew the password of its security door. The code was ruby bliels, a drink that he was ironically offered by the Chiss bartender earlier at the bar. Using the code, he infiltrated Baruk's command center, where he met the Rodian. Baruk was not inept: he set a trap for the Jedi, a set of ceiling-mounted laser cannons, followed by a large group of thugs. Katarn survived the ambush, but Baruk escaped through a tunnel at the back of his office. thumb|The [[Lady Luck/Legends|Lady Luck, guarded by Baruk's thugs|243x243px]] Katarn rescued Calrissian thereafter, using a control on Baruk's desk, and Calrissian offered Katarn an escape from Nar Shaddaa in his ship, the Lady Luck. The vehicle was heavily guarded by Baruk's thugs, and was also in need of refueling. This was taken care of by Katarn, who also opened the doors above the ship to allow it to leave, while Calrissian checked the on-board systems. Before they could leave the Vertical City, Baruk and some of his elite thugs attacked them. Katarn took control of a laser cannon on the Lady Luck ventral surface and shot down Baruk and his thugs. Having escaped, Katarn agreed to accompany Calrissian to Cloud City, which had been occupied by forces of the Empire Reborn, hoping to discover more clues to Desann's whereabouts. The mission appears in the 2002 video game Star Wars: Jedi Knight II: Jedi Outcast. *Star Wars: Jedi Knight II: Jedi Outcast Category:Battles of the Empire Reborn campaign Category:Missions to Nar Shaddaa