69462
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Old_Codger
Old Codger
3070

Old Codger was a skimmer owned by Jerg. The floater was originally painted yellow, and its name was hand-lettered onto the bow, but in the later years its paint had been nearly stripped, and it was dented. Its rear seats were removed in order to carry cargo. A sun screen provided shade under the Ruusanian sun. It operated with a power plant and had an on-board computer which would run diagnostics. Utility lamps could also be connected to its distribution panel. The floater was produced before 11 BBY. Despite its hard use, it was well-maintained by Jerg. In 1 BBY Morgan Katarn borrowed it from Fort Nowhere when he set out to explore Ruusan. He used the available space of the rear part to load camping and survival gear, a cooler, an awning, tools, supplies (twenty liters of water, cans of beer, tea, sandwiches, stew, fruits), a blast rifle, glow rod, utility lights, electrobinoculars, a solar still and a communicator set. He used it to travel during morning and evening so that he would be able to see the environment as much as possible, while avoiding the desert heat. He followed the old roadbed and made a stop near a boulder for breakfast. The native Bouncers considered the floater to be a sign of their Poem of Ages, according to which "An alien knight will arrive from the east. He will fly through the air, stay the night in the city of Olmondo". Feeling sentient presence nearby, Morgan changed his plans and decided to continue his route westwards until the evening where he stopped among a cluster of dunes and parked the floater between some dunes who formed a U-shape. The dunes were actually the ruins of Olmondo. Feeling uneasy he left the floater to inspect the grounds, and made contact with the Bouncers, and realised he was the figure of their lore. The next morning Morgan followed the directions from the Bouncers; he drove to some rocky, scree-covered foothills, among mesas and canyons and continued deeper into the badlands. Hours later he followed upward an ancient roadbed, while the Force, and the air, became increasingly thicker; to Morgan's surprise the skimmer's indicators were all green, and it continued unimpaired. The road turned right to piles of rubble, and then an open area among towering rock formations. Morgan stopped the skimmer and went to a hole on the ground to see the monument. It took a few days for Morgan to return back to the Fort. *Dark Forces: Rebel Agent *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Repulsorcraft