69773
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Unidentified_Jedi_student
Unidentified Jedi student
3785

The Jedi student was a male Jedi student at Luke Skywalker's Jedi Academy around the crisis of the Disciples of Ragnos. Rosh Penin, a fellow student, complained to him that his master Kyle Katarn did not foster his talent, but appeared to be holding him back by not sending him on any important missions. The Jedi student disagreed, arguing that their masters probably did not want to send the students on dangerous missions before they were sure they were ready for it. The Jedi student was also present at the Battle of Korriban, having battled his way into the Tomb of Marka Ragnos with Jaden Korr and a few other Jedi Masters. During the battle, he wielded an orange lightsaber, with the Adjudicator hilt design. thumb|left|The [[Jedi/Legends|Jedi student telling Rosh Penin not to worry about the way Master Katarn handles his training.]] 150.px||thumb|right|The Jedi student wields his lightsaber. The student is voiced by Milton James (in Jedi Outcast) and Cam Clarke (Jedi Academy). The Jedi student is canonical withing Star Wars Legends, appearing in some cutscenes in Star Wars: Jedi Knight: Jedi Academy, in which he has some dialogue. Unlike most other Jedi characters in that game, the Jedi student is not randomly generated. In the non-canonical dark side ending of the game Jaden Korr kills him. When Korr arrives on Korriban, the Jedi student immediately senses the presence of anger and hatred in Korr, thus proving a non-canonical knowledge of Force sense. Depending on the chosen difficulty, the angered Korr either hurls the Jedi student into a pillar and kills him and another Jedi Knight before proceeding to the Valley, or he must defeat him, just as all the other Knights (which is necessary regardless of the difficulty), in a lightsaber duel to progress. During this non-canon duel, the Jedi student shows competence in lightsaber combat, but he is beaten quite easily nonetheless. The model used for the Jedi student also appeared in Star Wars: Jedi Knight II: Jedi Outcast as one of the possible models for basic Jedi student NPCs seen around the Academy during the levels set there. It is possible that it is the same student in an earlier stage of training. *Star Wars: Jedi Knight II: Jedi Outcast *Star Wars: Jedi Knight: Jedi Academy Category:Humans Category:Jedi trainees of the New Jedi Order Category:Males