70189
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/All_Terrain_Tactical_Enforcer_(cargo_transport)
All Terrain Tactical Enforcer (cargo transport)
4370

Some of the Galactic Empire's All Terrain Tactical Enforcer walkers were modified into open-air cargo transports that functioned in a support role, similar to the All Terrain Open Transport. They were often used in conjunction with Imperial mining operations, as well as carrying troops and materials for bases and outposts. There were chairs fitted for 8 passengers, but with no cargo, it could accommodate dozens of troops. thumb|left|300px|An E-Web established atop an AT-TE cargo transport takes a shot during the Battle of Maridun. Since these walkers did not have any fixed weaponry of their own, they had to rely on other armored units for protection. Even so, the walker had room enough to carry several E-Web repeating blasters and their support equipment. The cargo space had to be cleared and the weapons had to be installed before they could be used to defend the walker. AT-TE cargo walkers were equipped with several useful appendages, including a front wire that could be attached to vehicles that were stuck and help pull them free. Craft as big as HAVw A5 Juggernauts would come to benefit from this accessory, and recovery of other vehicles was a role that the AT-TE cargo walker performed admirably. To hoist cargo to and from the walker, the AT-TE cargo walker was equipped with a loading arm. thumb|300px|An AT-TE cargo transport became a critical Imperial defensive point during the Battle of Maridun. An AT-TE cargo transport was part of General Ziering's forces that marched through the terrain of the planet MaridunEmpire 16 in the Outer Rim Territories. By unknowingly passing into a sacred place for a local Amani tribe, the AT-TE and the rest of the general's forces became involved in a Takital conflict. The AT-TE served as a critical fallback and defensive point during the battle. Three E-Web heavy blasters were affixed to the cargo transport and fired upon the advancing Amani.Empire 18 The walker was also used during various repair operations. Following the Battle of Kalist VI, AT-TEs of this kind helped clean up the ruins of an Imperial base and installed new components using a crane-appendage. *Empire 16 *Empire 17 *Empire 18 *Empire 29 *Empire 34 *Empire 40 Tactical Enforcer Cargo Category:Rothana Heavy Engineering products Category:Vehicle classes of the Galactic Empire