70268
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/N%27do_Maetrecis
N'do Maetrecis
5771

N'do Maetrecis was a Human male who served as a major in the Grand Army of the Republic during the Clone Wars. In 20 BBY, after being injured in a battle on the planet Drongar, he underwent a heart transplant due to a shrapnel injury. Afterward, Maetrecis then contracted a disease from Drongar's swamps, though Doctor Zan Yant managed to successfully treat the persistent ailment using an illegal healing substance&mdash;the plant bota. The Human male N'do Maetrecis was active during the Galactic Republic's reign. He served as a major in the Grand Army of the Republic during the Clone Wars between the Republic and the Confederacy of Independent Systems. thumb|right|260px|Zan Yant (pictured) saved N'do Maetrecis's life by treating him with bota, despite the plant being illegal to administer. In 20 BBY,The New Essential Chronology dates the events of MedStar I: Battle Surgeons to 20 BBY. Maetrecis was stationed on the planet Drongar, fighting in a battle where he was wounded by shrapnel. Republic Mobile Surgical Unit surgeons succeeded in conducting a heart transplant on him, though the procedure took several hours. Shortly afterward, Maetrecis then contracted one of many unknown diseases found in Drongar's swamps. As his skin turned pale and anhidrotic, doctors struggled to discover the root cause of his ailment and fretted as antibiotic medicine failed to combat his infection. Medical personnel attempted several techniques&mdash;such as macromolecular regeneration, nanocell implants, and maser cauterization&mdash;to no success. As Maetrecis lay ill, a member of The Silent kept a vigil from outside the major's sterile isolation chamber&mdash;holding a vow of silence&mdash;which was believed by some individuals to passively assist healing. In response, Doctor Zan Yant used processed bota&mdash;a plant found on Drongar with substantial medicinal qualities&mdash;to save Maetrecis's life, prompting him to begin making a fast recovery. However, as using bota was illegal by Republic law, Yant kept the medicine in unmarked containers while administering it. Surgeon Jos Vondar and Yant later discussed Maetrecis' condition while checking over the major's vital signs, noticing that his condition had improved significantly since their last check in. When the major briefly woke up, Vondar reassured him everything was fine. When the surgeons left the room, Vondar berated the other doctor for using bota on the major, though Yant defended his actions, insisting he wanted to save lives. N'do Maetrecis first appeared in the 2004 novel MedStar I: Battle Surgeons, which was written by by Michael Reaves and Steve Perry as the first installment of the MedStar Duology. *MedStar I: Battle Surgeons *MedStar I: Battle Surgeons abridged audiobook *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Grand Army of the Republic officers Category:Humans Category:Individuals with he/him pronouns Category:Majors Category:Males