71058
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Force_kick
Force kick
3351

Force Kick was a Force power that enabled the practitioner to perform a kick towards a target and thereby interrupt their actions through the Force, even if they were several meters apart. Some Jedi Knights were skilled in the ability. Luke Skywalker once used this ability against one of Jabba the Hutt's henchmen during the Battle of the Great Pit of Carkoon. }} thumb|329px|The "Force kick" in Return of the Jedi "Force kick" first appeared in Star Wars: Episode VI Return of the Jedi, in which Mark Hamill as Luke Skywalker kicks one of Jabba the Hutt's henchmen in the head, causing him to fall into the sarlacc pit while Boba Fett is flying helplessly by in the background. The choreography blooper consists of the stuntman reacting to the impact of the kick too late, when Hamill is already lowering his leg. The shooting 'flaw' consists of the camera being placed at an angle making it obvious that the kick did not actually hit the stuntman. The sequence is referred to as the "Force kick", which jokingly speculates that Luke uses Force telekinesis to make the henchman fall into the sarlacc pit rather than the physical impact of the kick. The Force kick was mentioned in Order 66: A Republic Commando Novel, albeit as a joke,Order 66: A Republic Commando Novel and appears in Star Wars: The Old Republic as a Jedi Knight ability. File:ForceKick-ROTJ.png|The kick is at its peak and would, in reality, have impacted on the kicked person. Notice the space between Hamill's foot and the stuntman. File:ForceKick2-ROTJ.png|Hamill lowering his leg; only now does the stuntman react to the kick. File:ForceKick3-ROTJ.png|The Force kick blooper is not always noticed, as focus is on Boba Fett's movement in the background. File:ForceKick4-ROTJ.png|Hamill's foot back on the ground; the stuntman turns to fall into the sarlacc. *Star Wars: The Old Republic *Star Wars: The Old Republic: Rise of the Hutt Cartel *Star Wars: The Old Republic: Shadow of Revan *Kinect Star Wars *Order 66: A Republic Commando Novel Category:Force powers Category:Star Wars culture