71719
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Mission_to_Chandrila
Mission to Chandrila
4625

The Mission to Chandrila was carried out by Jedi Knight Jaden Korr in 14 ABY during the Disciples of Ragnos crisis. The Disciples of Ragnos, a Sith cult, attempted to siphon Force energy from the tomb of the third Barsen'thor of the Jedi Order on Chandrila. Upon discovery of the tomb of the Barsen'thorStar Wars: Force and Destiny Core Rulebook and its tremendous aura of Force residue, Tavion Axmis, the cult's leader, sent her Cultists, assisted by mercenaries, to infiltrate the tomb and secure it for her arrival. The Cultists stormed the sanctuary and breached the Jedi's coffin, unsealing it to make ready for their leader. Finally, they holed themselves up in the vast underground catacomb and secured key locations throughout, waiting for Axmis to arrive so that they could begin extracting Force energy. Jaden Korr arrived at the tomb after receiving intelligence of the cult's activities and proceeded to investigate. Finding his route into the tomb blocked by large boulders, he used the Force to clear them aside, killing a mercenary standing on the balcony in front of the entrance in the process. Korr moved on through the tomb, engaging mercenaries and cultists and killing them. Attempts to demolish bridges in the tomb in order to deter Korr were made, although he managed to bypass these difficulties, defeating further cult members as he continued towards the burial chamber. Upon reaching the chamber, Korr encountered a New Reborn wielding a saberstaff. The two dueled, and Korr emerged victorious. He resealed the casket, allowing the dead Jedi to once again rest in peace. But in doing so, the burial chamber began to collapse. Korr escaped from the sanctuary, while those cultists who remained were killed in the ensuing destruction of the dead Jedi's mausoleum. The Mission to Chandrila was one of the two missions included in the demo of Jedi Knight: Jedi Academy, the other mission being Mission to Mos Eisley. *Star Wars: Jedi Knight: Jedi Academy Category:Battles of Chandrila Category:Battles of the Disciples of Ragnos crisis