71960
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Dubrillion_superlaser_facility
Dubrillion superlaser facility
3293

The Dubrillion superlaser facility was an Imperial superweapon in the midst of the main ocean of Dubrillion. An Imperial superlaser facility was located on Dubrillion, which was also immune to an aerial bombardment, as it was designed so its vital areas would not be able to be made targets in a bombardment. The facility also contained three shielded relay dishes for the laser's targeting system. However, even without the relay dishes, the superlaser's aim was accurate enough to attack its targets. The superlaser itself was powered by a turbine made of three turbines, the destruction of which would also result the facility's destruction. It was guarded by various TIE fighters, missile droids, and Imperial submarines. The superlaser facility featured three landing platforms arrayed around the center, where the superlaser bowl was. The platforms were guarded by All Terrain Scout Transports and stormtrooper squads with E-Web heavy repeating blasters. Each landing platform featured an elevator to the lower level, which was circular and had featured transport tracks and overhead conveyors. Walkways from the lower level reached into the turbine area. During the Galactic Civil War, the installation was part of a plot to destroy a Rebel Alliance convoy in 3 ABY. The Empire lured the fleet to Destrillion by slipping false information to Rebel intelligence of an Imperial outpost in the system. The fleet would have to pass through the Dubrillion system. Rogue Squadron led a raid on the outpost during the ensuing ambush. After disabling the superlaser relay dishes in a Y-wing, Wedge Antilles used a captured AT-ST to infiltrate the facility and used an AT-AT to destroy the inner power nodes, destroying the installation. The superlaser appears in the 2003 video game Star Wars: Rogue Squadron III: Rebel Strike. *Star Wars: Rogue Squadron III: Rebel Strike *Star Wars: Rogue Squadron III: Rebel Strike: The Official Nintendo Player's Guide Category:Dubrillion locations Category:Galactic Empire locations Category:Superlasers