72270
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Clint_Bajakian
Clint Bajakian
4565

200px|thumb|Clint Bajakian Clint Bajakian (born October 31, 1962) is a musician, composer and sound designer of video games. He also provided voices for some game characters, including Jabba the Hutt. Bajakian is a classically trained musician, having studied guitar and piano, and graduated from the University of Michigan with a Masters of Arts for composition, focusing on orchestra and instrumental ensembles. He also has a a classical guitar degree from the New England Conservatory of Music. During his studies, the university orchestra performed one of his instrumental compositions.Jo Ashburn, The Dig Official Player's Guide Bajackian served as music director at a Boston Symphony Orchestra-affiliated art camp. As a sound designer, Bajakian compiled his own collection of recorded sound effects which he utilized in games.Dark Forces Official Player's Guide Bajakian joined LucasArts in 1991. He created the sound effects for Star Wars: X-Wing, and both the sound effects and some music for Star Wars: TIE Fighter and Star Wars: Dark Forces. He worked as Sound Editing and Processing Engineer during the production of Star Wars: Rebel Assault, working with Michael Land and Peter McConnell. Among other things, he edited the voice acting (in 16-bit resolution), broke the lines down, and equalized them to sound clear. He also added some effects, such as voice over radio chatter, "by narrowing the bandwidth in the middle to high end".Star Wars: Rebel Assault: The Official Insider's Guide For Star Wars: Dark Forces he composed the musical score, designed all sound effects, and processed voice acting from his studio in San Rafael. Bajakian also worked as a voice actor in video games, such as voicing Boorka in Galactic Battlegrounds. *Super Star Wars: The Empire Strikes Back *Star Wars: X-Wing *Star Wars: TIE Fighter *Star Wars: Dark Forces *Star Wars: Jedi Knight: Dark Forces II *Star Wars: Jedi Knight: Mysteries of the Sith *Star Wars: Masters of Teräs Käsi *Star Wars: Episode I The Phantom Menace video game *Star Wars Episode I: The Gungan Frontier *Star Wars: Force Commander *Star Wars: Episode I Jedi Power Battles *Star Wars: Demolition *Star Wars: Obi-Wan *Star Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds *Star Wars: Episode I: Battle for Naboo *Star Wars: Super Bombad Racing *Star Wars: Racer Revenge *Star Wars: Bounty Hunter *Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic *Dark Forces Official Player's Guide Category:Actors who have portrayed Jabba Desilijic Tiure Category:Actors who have portrayed Maul Category:Other Lucasfilm employees Category:Real-world composers Category:Star Wars Episode I: The Gungan Frontier voice actors Category:Star Wars Episode I: The Phantom Menace video game voice actors Category:Star Wars game developers Category:Star Wars: Bounty Hunter voice actors Category:Star Wars: Demolition voice actors Category:Star Wars: Episode I: Battle for Naboo voice actors Category:Star Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds voice actors Category:Star Wars: Obi-Wan voice actors Category:Star Wars: Racer Revenge voice actors Category:Star Wars: Super Bombad Racing voice actors