72442
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Garr
Garr
9405

Garr was an Excargan whose mother and father were presumed dead after Confederacy of Independent Systems invaded Excarga. Along with other orphans, Garr traveled on the Republic starship Candaserri to an orphanage on Bespin. Boba Fett, who came aboard shortly after the Conquest of Raxus Prime, was the same age as Garr and they quickly became friends. They parted on Bespin when Aurra Sing caught up to Fett, and Garr sought help from the Jedi Glynn-Beti and Ulu Ulix despite Fett's hatred of the Jedi Order. Garr was born in 32 BBY on the mining planet Excarga to a mother and father who were ore traders. As a ten-year-old Excargan in 22 BBY, Garr's gender had not yet been determined; until Excargans experienced physical changes around age thirteen, they were genderless. When the Confederacy of Independent Systems invaded to take control of the mines, Garr's parents hid their child while they themselves were made prisoners. After a counterattack by the Republic, Garr's parents could not be found and were presumed dead, although Garr believed they were alive and would return for their child. The orphan was taken to the Republic starship Candaserri, which was journeying to an orphanage on Bespin with other younger children. thumb|right|250px|Garr's best friend, Boba Fett Fellow ten-year-old Boba Fett came aboard the ship at Raxus Prime after he was saved from the Conquest of Raxus Prime by a group of clone troopers and the Bothan Jedi Glynn-Beti. Fett was a Human boy who had never had a friend before, but Garr quickly became his first and best friend. After several days of friendship, Fett asked if Garr was a boy or a girl, and Garr explained the difference in the Excargans and other species. Garr found it frustrating that other children would not simply treat each other as people instead of girls and boys. Fett said that the other kids were stupid and should just treat Garr as a friend like Fett did. Garr and Fett loved to explore the Candaserri despite the prohibition against orphans roaming the ship unattended. Garr did not share Fett's interest in space, but both children were interested in starships and observed them being armed and serviced by droids in the rear docking bay. Even though Fett had been concealing his past, he unthinkingly revealed that his father had taught him how to pilot a ship, something Garr's mother would have had a fit over. In all of their explorations of the ship, Garr and Fett had been unable to access the bridge. The pair's mutual curiosity almost resulted in being left floating in space when they went on a spacewalk to look into the bridge from the outside. thumb|left|200px|Garr's life was endangered by the bounty hunter Aurra Sing. Upon arriving at Bespin, Fett tried to escape from the Jedi at the orphanage; he hated the entire Jedi Order due to recently witnessing Jedi Master Mace Windu kill his father, Jango Fett. Garr realized Boba had accidentally left his flight bag behind and caught up with him to return it. While Garr tried to persuade Fett to come back to the orphanage, the friends were interrupted by the bounty hunter Aurra Sing. Sing grabbed Fett and Garr began kicking her to get her to release him. In response, Sing dangled Garr over a kilometers-long drop, but pulled the child back after Fett called Garr his friend. Despite what he had just said, Fett then acted cold and repeated to Garr that he had no room for friends, trying to motivate Garr to survive by leaving him behind. Garr still would not flee until Sing's hand went to her blaster. However, Garr had not abandoned Fett and told the Jedi what was happening with Sing. Garr joined Glynn-Beti and her Padawan, Ulu Ulix, in a cloud car to pursue Sing as she flew Slave I, the ship she had stolen from Fett. Sing was prepared to fire upon the cloud car until Fett flew in between to prevent her from doing so, even though it almost resulted in Fett losing his life. Although Garr seeking help from the Jedi seemed to Fett like a personal betrayal, the boy recognized that Garr had just intended to help him. Compared to Boba Fett at the same age, Garr's complexion was darker than Fett's tan-colored skin and Garr's hair was shorter. Garr had brown eyes that Fett thought had a merry look. Raised to respect the Jedi, Garr wished to be Force-sensitive and train as one of them. Despite their friendship, Garr only knew Boba Fett by the alias "Teff" that Fett used to avoid being identified by the Jedi. In addition to keeping his own name a secret, Fett concealed or lied to Garr about other personal details, such as his own origin as a clone of his father when Garr felt the clone troopers were creepy. thumb|right|160px|The hardcover edition of Boba Fett: Crossfire Garr appeared in the young readers novel Boba Fett: Crossfire, written by Terry Bisson and first published by Scholastic in 2002. The book was the second in the Star Wars: Boba Fett series for young readers. Garr received an entry in the 2008 reference book set The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia. The character's entry refers to Garr with he/him pronouns despite Boba Fett: Crossfire never using any pronouns for Garr. Due to other instances of The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia using he/him for characters never previously referred to with those pronouns, this article has treated the entry as in error. *Boba Fett: Crossfire *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia *The Essential Reader's Companion Category:Excargans Category:Genderless individuals Category:Individuals from Excarga