72950
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Dembaline
Dembaline
5908

}} Dembaline was a Mon Calamari composer whose most recognizable work, the song "Shwock Dubllon," was produced prior to the Clone Wars. By 22 BBY, the HoloNet News agency regarded "Shwock Dubllon" as a classic, and the song had been remixed by musician Gaeriel Capens. Dembaline and "Shwock Dubllon" retained their popularity across the span of several decades, and the piece was later used by a starfighter squadron, the Dozen-and-Two Avengers, as its unofficial theme song. thumb|right|300px|One of Dembaline's songs, "Shwock Dubllon," was considered one of Dac's (pictured) significant contributions to galactic culture. Dembaline was a member of the Mon Calamari species, amphibious humanoids native to the planet Dac.The New Essential Guide to Alien Species Dembaline became a composer at some point prior to the Clone Wars and produced a number of works that were notable in the galaxy, one of the more prominent being the song "Shwock Dubllon," a timeless masterpiece that served as most species' first exposure to Mon Calamari diaspora and was considered one of Dac's most significant contributions to galactic culture. Translated into Galactic Basic Standard, "Shwock Dubllon" meant "Crested Wake," and it was known as a rousing, dramatic piece. In 22 BBY, is set on the date 13:5:16, which corresponds to 22 BBY according to the reasoning here. the musician Gaeriel Capens released to renewed acclaim a remix of "Shwock Dubllon." HoloNet News CoCo District Edition later published about the remix, detailing that it was produced with the aid of RetSpan Audionics TribBot mimic droids. Dembaline's music remained popular following the Clone Wars and into the period of the Yuuzhan Vong War, which began in 25 ABY.The New Essential Chronology A New Republic starfighter squadron dedicated to tracking down pirates and smugglers in the Outer Rim Territories, known as the Dozen-and-Two Avengers and led by Jedi Master Kyp Durron, adopted "Shwock Dubllon" as its unofficial theme song. A musical composer of some renown, Dembaline's work retained its notability and popularity for many decades. One of Dembaline's best known songs, "Shwock Dubllon," was regarded as a rousing and dramatic piece by some Humans. Dembaline was both a common name among female Mon Calamari and a type of homonymous gemstone.Galactic Campaign Guide Dembaline was first mentioned in the 1999 novel The New Jedi Order: Vector Prime, the first installment in The New Jedi Order series, which was written by R. A. Salvatore. *The New Jedi Order: Vector Prime *The New Jedi Order: Vector Prime abridged audiobook *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Individuals of unspecified gender Category:Individuals with unspecified pronouns Category:Mon Calamari Category:Musicians