72935
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Star_Wars_radio_dramas
Star Wars radio dramas
21785

*Carol Titelman *John Bos *Tom Voegeli |director=John Madden |cover artist=Matt Busch |illustrator= |publisher=*National Public Radio *HighBridge Audio |release date=*March 2&ndash;May 25, 1981 *February 14&ndash;April 18, 1983 *October 19&ndash;November 23, 1996 |rereleased=*March 24, 1993 *July 16, 1993 *October 30, 2007 *November 6, 2013 |media type=*Radio broadcast *Cassette *Compact disc |run time=29 episodes, approximately 30 minutes each |discs= |cassettes= |pages= |isbn=9781622313242 |timeline=0 BBYStar Wars radio drama&ndash;4 ABYReturn of the Jedi radio drama |series= |preceded by= |followed by= }} The Star Wars radio dramas are expanded audio adaptations of the original Star Wars trilogy first broadcast on National Public Radio in 1981, 1983, and 1996. The first two radio series, Star Wars and The Empire Strikes Back, were produced by NPR and broadcast on the program NPR Playhouse. The third, Return of the Jedi, was produced by HighBridge Audio by many of the same cast and production team. It was broadcast on NPR's L.A. Theatre Works. The radio serials were made with the full co-operation of George Lucas, who for one dollar sold the rights to the first Star Wars film to KUSC-FM, the public radio affiliate at his alma mater, the University of Southern California. The deal allowed the production team full use of the films' sound effects and musical score. Lucas made similar agreements for the other two films, selling the radio rights for one dollar each. Recordings of all three dramatizations were produced by HighBridge, and Del Rey published the three scripts in book form. Sw-radio.jpg|Star WarsAlso released as Star Wars: A New Hope Esb-radio.png|The Empire Strikes Back Rotj radiodrama.jpg|and Return of the Jedi Star Wars is a 13-part, 6&frac12;-hour radio serial based on . It was first broadcast on National Public Radio in 1981. It was the brainchild of Richard Toscan, who presented the idea to Lucasfilm and obtained the rights to Star Wars for KUSC, n NPR affiliate. Lucasfilm commissioned Brian Daley to write the script,Star Wars: The National Public Radio Dramatization with Toscan assisting in the process to make sure the script was well adapted for radio. Daley's script fleshed out the film's storyline into thirteen half-hour episodes. The first two-and-a-half episodes provided backstory, some of which was taken from deleted scenes from the film. One episode depicts Princess Leia's first encounter with Darth Vader;"Points of Origin" another shows how her ship obtains the Death Star plans after the Battle of Toprawa."Black Knight, White Princess, and Pawns" Luke Skywalker's first episode depicts his life on Tatooine, including a skyhopper race in Beggar's Canyon&mdash;something alluded to in the film but never shown&mdash;and later his witnessing of the movie's opening battle through his macrobinoculars, which comes from a deleted scene."A Wind to Shake the Stars" Later additional scenes depict Threepio and Artoo's efforts to evade capture in the streets of Mos Eisley,"The Han Solo Solution" Luke's lightsaber combat training aboard ship,"Rogues, Rebels and Robots" and Leia's brutal psychological torture at Vader's hands, among other additions."Death Star's Transit" During production, John Madden directed the voice actors, and Tom Voegeli led the sound mixing in post-production, combining the recorded performance with the original film's music by John Williams and sound effects by Ben Burtt. NPR went to considerable effort to promote the drama, commissioning a poster, hosting an opening gala at Griffith Observatory in Los Angeles, and producing a making-of documentary, A Fable for the Mind's Eye.A Fable for the Mind's Eye Many of the actors involved in the movie were unavailable to reprise their roles: Harrison Ford, for instance, was committed to the first Indiana Jones movie. Two of the actors, Mark Hamill and Anthony Daniels, returned to reprise their roles as Luke Skywalker and C-3PO respectively. The episodes were entitled: "A Wind to Shake the Stars" "Points of Origin "Black Knight, White Princess, and Pawns" "While Giants Mark Time" "Jedi that Was, Jedi to Be" "The Millennium Falcon Deal" "The Han Solo Solution" "Death Star's Transit" "Rogues, Rebels and Robots" "The Luke Skywalker Initiative" "The Jedi Nexus" "The Case for Rebellion" "Force and Counterforce" The success of the first series led to a 10-part, five-hour series based on , which debuted on NPR on February 14, 1983. The three principal production leaders, Daley, Madden, and Voegli, returned, with Voegli getting an additional credit as co-director. All the principal cast members also reprised their roles. As with the first Star Wars radio drama, NPR launched an extensive promotional campaign.The Empire Strikes Back: The National Public Radio Dramatization In one unusual promotion, Craig Claiborne was tapped to create a version of Yoda's rootleaf stew recipe, which the Jedi Master served Luke in his hut on Dagobah. The recipe ran in magazines and newspapers across the country. Like Star Wars, The Empire Strikes Back expanded on the film's story, incorporating new scenes to flesh out characters and events, though its shorter ten-episode run meant that such additions could not be as long. The first episode begins before the film's opening scene and features an Imperial attack on a Rebel patrol in the Battle of Derra IV, followed by depictions of the Rebels' work to establish their hidden base."Freedom's Winter" A later scene shows Han Solo's efforts to keep Luke Skywalker alive while stranded overnight in an emergency shelter in the frozen wastelands of Hoth."A Question of Survival" Still later, the cyborg Lobot, mute for the entirety of the film, is given a few terse lines of dialogue."Dark Lord's Fury" Billy Dee Williams reprised Lando Calrissian, and John Lithgow played Yoda; at the time Madden was directing Lithgow in the play Beyond Therapy. The episodes were titled: "Freedom's Winter" "The Coming Storm" "A Question of Survival" "Fire and Ice" "The Millennium Falcon Pursuit" "Way of the Jedi" "New Allies, New Enemies" "Dark Lord's Fury" "Gambler's Choice" "The Clash of Lightsabers" NPR's plans for a third radio serial based on were put on hold when federal funding for public radio was dramatically reduced during the administration of Ronald Reagan. In 1996 HighBridge Audio, the company that had released the first two series on tape and CD, finally undertook the production of the third installment of the trilogy. Return of the Jedi was written in six episodes for a running time of about three hours. The core production team of Daley, Madden and Voegli reassembled, as did most of the principal cast members, though notably not Mark Hamill or Billy Dee Williams, whose roles had to be recast. Scriptwriter Brian Daley was ill with cancer during production and in fact died on the day that recording concluded; therefore John Whitman was hired to handle necessary rewrites and additions that would be identified by the director and cast. However, in most cases Madden accepted Daley's script without changes, and Whitman is credited as an additional writer only for the first two episodes.Return of the Jedi: The National Public Radio Dramatization Despite its much shorter running time than the two preceding series, Return of the Jedi followed them in adding additional scenes and dialogue to the story. Many of these drew connections to the growing Star Wars Expanded Universe, making references to events from the Thrawn Trilogy, Dark Empire, and Shadows of the Empire, the last of which was published a few months before the radio drama's premier. The opening scene, depicting Luke Skywalker's construction of his new lightsaber, follows directly on the epilogue of Shadows of the Empire.'Shadows of the Empire Another scene depicts a conversation between C-3PO and Thrawn Trilogy character Mara Jade, who is undercover in the palace of Jabba the Hutt."Tatooine Haunts" The adaptation used many of the original radio cast, though Joshua Fardon took over as Luke and Arye Gross replaced Billy Dee Williams as Lando. Ed Begley, Jr. was the voice of Boba Fett and Ed Asner, speaking only in grunts, guest-stars as Jabba the Hutt. The only actor who starred in both the feature films and all three radio dramas was Anthony Daniels. The episodes were titled: "Tatooine Haunts" "Fast Friends" "Prophecies and Destinies" "Pattern and Web" "So Turns a Galaxy, So Turns a Wheel" "Blood of a Jedi" *There are several radio promos, deleted scenes, and additional music tracks available that originated on previous releases of this collection and in the NPR broadcast versions. *BBC Radio 1 broadcast the series in the UK, with a key scene in the final episode clumsily cut for timing. *All three series have been released on cassette tape and CD. The tracks are: "Radio Promo #1 - Anthony Daniels" "Radio Promo #2 - Ann Sachs" "Radio Promo #3 - Mark Hamill" "Star Wars Radio Drama - Additional Music" "Star Wars Radio Drama - Alternate Take 'Your Father's Lightsaber'" "Star Wars Radio Drama - Alternate Take 'Bail and Leia'" "Return Of The Jedi Radio Drama - Alternate Take 'Speederbike Chase'" "The Making Of The Radio Dramas" The earliest statements about Star Wars canon, made in 1994 in A Guide to the Star Wars Universe and Star Wars Insider 23, gave a privileged status to the radio dramas and novelizations alongside the films, considering them all to be official benchmarks for what was in the Star Wars universe.A Guide to the Star Wars Universe, Second Edition, Revised and Expanded'Star Wars Insider 23 In 2000, Lucasfilm reorganized the canon and specified that the highest level, "G-canon," was reserved the films only. Since then, anything in the radio dramas beyond the events of the films has been part of the Expanded Universe, which became Star Wars Legends in 2014. *; November 6, 2013; HighBridge Audio; Collector's Edition: Light Side *; November 6, 2013; HighBridge Audio; Collector's Edition: Dark Side File:Complete_SWTrilogy_NPR_CD.jpg|Collector's Limited Edition - The Complete Star Wars Trilogy - Original Radio Dramas File:StarWarsRadioDramaLightSideCollectorsEdition.jpg|Star Wars: A New Hope - The Original Radio Drama, Topps "Light Side" Collector's Edition File:StarWarsRadioDramaDarkSideCollectorsEdition.jpg|Star Wars: A New Hope - The Original Radio Drama, Topps "Dark Side" Collector's Edition File:Ep5_NPR_Ca.jpg|Cassette cover File:Ep4_NPR_Ca.jpg|Original cassette box File:SW_NPR_CD.png|Original compact disc box File:Rotj_radiodrama.jpg|Original cassette box File:RotJ-Radio-CD.jpg|Original compact disc box *The Making of Star Wars For Radio: A Fable For the Mind's Eye *A Guide to the Star Wars Universe, Second Edition, Revised and Expanded *Star Wars: The National Public Radio Dramatization *The Empire Strikes Back: The National Public Radio Dramatization *Return of the Jedi: The National Public Radio Dramatization *Star Wars Year by Year: A Visual Chronicle *Star Wars Year by Year: A Visual Chronicle, Updated Edition *Star Wars Year By Year: A Visual History, Updated and Expanded Edition *Star Wars Year By Year: A Visual History, New Edition }} Category:Multimedia projects