72917
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Oma-Oma
Oma-Oma
4196

}} Oma-Oma was the principal deity in the religion of the Gungan species of the planet Naboo. She was believed to have created all life on the world and to have overseen lesser gods, including Dobbis and Gob Gobba. thumb|right|250px|A Gungan priest believed all Gungans needed to be worthy of Oma-Oma's gift of life. Oma-Oma was a female deity who served as chief of the guds and was worshiped as the principal deity in the religion of the Gungan species of the planet Naboo. She was believed to have created all life on the planet and to have lived with the other guds in the beautiful underwater city of Ossorus. As her mission was to bring life to Naboo, Oma-Oma also oversaw lesser guds such as Dobbis, goddess of rain, and Gob Gobba, god of fresh water. The god of destruction, Mekamok, lay outside of Oma-Oma's authority and was avoided by his peers while he influenced mortality and decay on Naboo. According to legend, Oma-Oma turned the first Gungan warrior, Balam, into the god of battle, taking him to Ossorus to teach the other guds to fight. A Gungan priest believed that all members of their species had to endeavor to be worthy of Oma-Oma's gift of life. Oma-Oma held the title of "Boss" due to her domination of the other guds, although she would only make decisions through consultation with other major deities. In Gungan legends, Oma-Oma was credited with creating all life on Naboo and was capable of turning the mortal Balam into a god. Oma-Oma was first mentioned in Galactic Phrase Book & Travel Guide, a reference book written by Ben Burtt published on August 7, 2001. In the LucasArts video game Star Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds, released on November 11 of 2001, Oma-Oma's name could also be randomly chosen as a leader of the Gungan civilization in the standard game mode. *Star Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds *Star Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds: Clone Campaigns *Galactic Phrase Book & Travel Guide *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Females Category:Guds