73296
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Memnis
Memnis
3659

A memnis (plural memnii) was an extremely vivid memory produced by Caamasi when they experienced jolting events or situations, such as witnessing the murder of a family member, meeting someone famous, the birth of a child, or another personally important event. Memnii contained emotions and physical sensations, along with other less tangible parts. Unlike normal memories, they did not fade in intensity over time. Memnii could be transferred to others by Caamasi; this would not erase the feelings, but the Caamasi believed that sharing it with others would help alleviate the pain. In most cases, memnii could be transferred only to those related within three or four generations of separation; further than that, the ability was near impossible. That developed in a reason for why most Caamasi married between clans, to ensure that there were plenty of routes for transmission of memnii. If a Caamasi had formed a close bond with a Jedi, he could transfer a memnis to him. This discovery was seen as a miraculous event. The Caamasi Snout was able to experience centuries of the Crucible's cruelty through memnii from other Caamasi. In 3963 BBY, on Volgax, he let the ex-Jedi Zayne Carrick see Crucible's slaver history through memnii. The Palace of Memnii was an ancient collection of memnii and other accounts of violence, gathered on Caamas from across the galaxy. Following the Destruction of Caamas by the Galactic Empire, a "wave" of memnii spread among all of the off-world Caamasi, as they struggled to come to terms with the disaster.Coruscant Nights II: Street of Shadows *Knights of the Old Republic 45 *Coruscant Nights II: Street of Shadows *I, Jedi *I, Jedi abridged audiobook *The New Jedi Order: Dark Tide I: Onslaught *The New Jedi Order: Dark Tide I: Onslaught abridged audiobook *The New Jedi Order: Destiny's Way *The New Jedi Order: Destiny's Way abridged audiobook *The New Jedi Order Sourcebook *Coruscant and the Core Worlds *Ultimate Alien Anthology *The Force Unleashed Campaign Guide *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia *Desperate Allies Category:Biological phenomena