73486
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Ligg_Panat
Ligg Panat
4240

Lieutenant Ligg Panat was a female Krish serving in Rogue Squadron at the start of the Yuuzhan Vong War in 25 ABY. Flying under Rogue Leader Gavin Darklighter, she had the callsign Rogue Seven, and she approached combat as though it were a game, reflecting her species' enthusiasm for sport and play. Ligg Panat, a Krish female, was a starfighter pilot who served in the famed Rogue Squadron in 25 ABY at the start of the Yuuzhan Vong War. She was a lieutenant who flew as Rogue Seven. At the beginning of that war, Rogue Squadron were recruited by Admiral Traest Kre'fey of the New Republic Defense Fleet to investigate the Outer Rim after a report from Leia Organa Solo of an invading alien force was met with disinterest by the New Republic Senate. Officially, the Rogues would be simulating pirate attacks on Kre'fey's Bothan Assault Cruiser, the Ralroost, so as not to openly defy the Senate. In the Outer Rim, Panat and the rest of the Rogues faced off against the coralskipper fighter craft of the extra-galactic Yuuzhan Vong, and two members of the squadron, Tik and Dinger, were killed by a miniature black hole created by the coralskippers' dovin basal vortices. The Rogues faced off against more coralskippers while the Ralroost helped evacuate Agamarian refugees from Dubrillion. Without enough supplies for a long-distance hyperspace jump, the freighters carrying the refugees landed on Dantooine, and Rogue Squadron were part of a small force that defended them from a Yuuzhan Vong onslaught in the Battle of Dantooine. Panat was one of six Rogue pilots who were killed by coralskippers in the battle, which also saw Yuuzhan Vong warriors murder half of the refugees. The survivors were relocated to Agamar before the remaining Rogues returned to Coruscant aboard the Ralroost. *The New Jedi Order: Dark Tide I: Onslaught *Ultimate Alien Anthology *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Panat, Ligg Panat, Ligg Panat, Ligg