73410
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Boonta_Speeder_Race
Boonta Speeder Race
3950

The Boonta Speeder Race was an annual speeder race that took place on the planet Boonta two days after the Boonta Eve Classic podrace on Tatooine. It was established by Yenchara the Hutt of the Desilijic kajidic as a way of increasing profits by providing an alternative to the podrace in which Humans could participate. thumb|left|Racing fans watch from the general spectators area. The race track was a large, winding oval tunnel about sixteen kilometers long. In addition to the general spectators area, there were several enclosed viewing areas, featuring large viewing screens, set aside for more important spectators. In 15 BBY, Admiral Screed watched the race from one of these private boxes. That same year, the race was won by the team of Thall Joben, Jord Dusat and Kea Moll despite the interference of the Fromm Gang and Boba Fett who had been hired by Sise Fromm to kill the young racers. Boba Fett's droid, BL-17, had previously tried to lure them into a trap by befriending C-3PO but was exposed and stopped by Proto One and R2-D2. Joben entered the race but was pursued by Fett in Silver Speeder. Fett tried to kill Joben, luring White Witch closer with a magnetic weapon. However, Fett was unaware that Tig Fromm had planted a thermal detonator on White Witch which was set to explode at the end of the race. Unfortunately for Fett, the weapon attracted not the Witch, but the thermal detonator, destroying Fett's speeder and almost killing Fett. Frustrated, Fett captured Sise Fromm, Vlix Oncard, and Tig Fromm on Boonta and turned them over to Jabba the Hutt. thumb|right|Thall Joben and Jord Dusat celebrate after winning the Boonta Speeder Race. After the race, Dusat, Moll, and Joben were hired as speeder designers for the Zebulon Dak Speeder Corporation by Zebulon Dak himself. R2-D2 and C-3PO, not wanting to get in the way of this career opportunity, jettisoned themselves from the planet in an escape pod. *The Essential Guide to Characters *Star Wars: Boba Fett Category:Racing sports Category:Sporting events