73607
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Unidentified_Human_Jedi_(Jedi_Temple)
Unidentified Human Jedi (Jedi Temple)
4238

This individual was a male Human Jedi Knight who served the Jedi Order during the waning years of the Galactic Republic. A survivor of the Clone Wars and the execution of Contingency Order 66, this individual attempted to convince the citizens of the Temple Precinct that the Jedi were not traitors when he stormed the steps of the Jedi Temple. His attempt was in vain, as he was overwhelmed by the troopers guarding the Temple's entrance. The Jedi wielded a blue-bladed lightsaber. A Force-sensitive, this Jedi was tutored in the ways of the Force at the Jedi Temple on Coruscant. After constructing a blue-bladed lightsaber and completing the Trials of Knighthood, this man ascended to the rank of Jedi Knight. When the Clone Wars erupted between the Galactic Republic and the Confederacy of Independent Systems, this Jedi dutifully took up the rank of General within the Grand Army of the Republic and led clone troopers in battle for three years. thumb|left|250px|The [[Jedi/Legends|Jedi is shot and killed.]] When Supreme Chancellor Palpatine betrayed the Order by issuing Contingency Order 66 to the Grand Army, effectively disbanding the Jedi, this individual survived and went into hiding in the Coruscant Undercity. Within days of the Temple's occupation by the newly formed Galactic Empire, this Jedi spoke to a crowd of citizens on the steps of the public entrance to the Temple. Amidst the smoke from a blazing pyre, the Jedi called upon his fellow Jedi in the crowd to avenge their betrayed brother and sister Jedi and reclaim the Temple. When no other being joined him, he raced up the stairs, lightsaber ablaze and killing one stormtrooper, only to be shot down by members of the 501st Legion still guarding the Temple. His body was quickly tossed onto the makeshift pyre on the steps for all to see. *Republic 80 *Star Wars: The Ultimate Visual Guide: Special Edition *Star Wars: The Ultimate Visual Guide: Updated and Expanded Category:Humans Category:Jedi Purge victims Category:Males Category:Post-Ruusan Jedi Knights