73639
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/G-003_Tri-Tracker
G-003 Tri-Tracker
6724

The G-003 Tri-Tracker was built by CoMar Combat Systems. Built by CoMar Combat Systems, the G-003 Tri-Tracker utilized a triple-array sensor and computing package known as the Target Acquisition and Tracking (TAT) to accomplish three tasks. The first task was to establish a signature lock on all targets of interest in the weapon's vector of interest as designated by the operator. The operator or the onboard computer would then select a primary target, while the computer continued to update the list of alternate targets. The second task was to record and track the target's position relative to the weapon as well as its evasive maneuvers. This data was transmitted to the Countermeasures Compensation Computer (C3)&mdash;a unique sensor and brain combination&mdash;which analyzed and tracked the target's countermeasures, such as sensor jamming, chaff, or drones. It then extrapolated and predicted the target's flight path, compensating for these variables when the weapon was fired. As the C3 unit continued to track even receding targets, the operator was able to shoot at them with extreme accuracy. Many pilots found themselves victims to a long-distance "parting shot" while believing themselves to be out of range of the Tri-Tracker. The G-003 had a minimum range of twenty Imperial standard meters, and a maximum range of sixteen thousand meters. Each shot had a ten meter blast radius, and the power output of the Tri-Tracker's weapon blast was comparable to the output of a Star Destroyer's turbolaser hardpoint. The accuracy of the G-003 Tri-Tracker was improved through the application of a tri-beam burst that bracketed the designated target's predicted location. The C3 unit made minor adjustments right up to the point the weapon fired. G-003 Tri-Trackers had a slow rate of fire due to the complexity of the weapon's targeting and firing system, and it required three times longer to reset than it did to fire. The sensor system of the Tri-Tracker had a short range, falling far short of the effective firing range of the weapon. This deficiency was compensated for by the TAT's ability to extrapolate and predict a flight path for the target craft even beyond the weapon's sensor limits. G-003 Tri-Trackers drew power by either been connected to a mains land-line, a power generator, or from a reserve battery. Although the battery option appealed due to the options for portability for the weapon, it was seldom employed due the power-hungry nature of the weapon, and the battery only gave the weapon forty shots. Connection to land-based power lines and generators was the preferred option. A two man-crew was required to operate the G-003 Tri-Tracker. One fired the weapon while the second selected and prioritized targets in the TAT. The Tri-Tracker could be operated by a single crewmember, but the weapon lost forty percent of its accuracy during the target acquisition process. Droids, specifically programmed to operate the Tri-Tracker, could man the weapon in place of qualified organic operators. The G-003 was a massive unit,The Essential Guide to Weapons and Technology designed for use in a permanent emplacement or as part of a mobile defense with the use of a heavy-duty repulsor sled. However, the G-003 required a long time for set-up and calibration when installed, meaning it was not popular for use as a mobile emplacement. It was generally used in its mobile form only when employed as part of a long-term defensive position. G-003s cost 50,000 credits to purchase new, and 25,000 used. The G-003 Tri-Tracker was designed for the Imperial Military to combat enemy atmospheric threats. Using proven technology from the Imperial-class Star Destroyer weapons technology, CoMar developed the most accurate surface-to-air defense system for the Galactic Empire. Due to the Tri-Tracker's slow rate of fire, a concentrated air attack against the emplacements was capable of overwhelming them. With this mind, Tri-Trackers were commonly employed as a part of a larger, interlinked network of air defense emplacements. When employed in this fashion, a network fire control system was used to coordinate the TAT for maximum target coverage. *X-Wing: The Bacta War *Imperial Sourcebook *Star Wars Gamemaster Kit *Imperial Sourcebook, Second Edition *The Essential Guide to Weapons and Technology *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia *Star Wars: Imperial Handbook: A Commander's Guide Category:CoMar Combat Systems products Category:Ground-based laser cannons