74066
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Lanni_Troujow
Lanni Troujow
5067

Lanni Troujow was a Human female who, while piloting a surface-to-surface run for a mining outfit on the planet Dellalt, found the log-recorder of the ancient lost treasure ship Queen of Ranroon. Although Troujow was killed before she could hunt for the treasure in earnest, her discovery allowed her sister Hasti and father figure Alexsandr Badure to find the fabled prize themselves. Orphaned at an early age, Lanni Troujow grew up with her sister Hasti in the Tion Hegemony, eking out a meager life working at a variety of mines and camps. Having inherited a Pilot's Guild book from her father, Lanni was able to bolster their income by making surface-to-surface work runs. This practice continued when the Troujow sisters began work as contract labor with an illegal mining outfit on the planet Dellalt, where they formed a tight bond with Alexsandr Badure, a former Imperial Navy officer who looked after the two sisters in the chaos of the camp. During one of her runs, Troujow happened across an ancient log-recorder that appeared to be for the Queen of Ranroon, the fabled treasure ship of the pre-Republic galactic despot Xim, which was bound for Dellalt before its mysterious disappearance. The log-recorder promised to be the key towards a discovery that could lift the Troujows and Badure out of poverty. Initially, Lanni attempted to investigate the treasure's location on her own, taking quick diversions off of work runs to search promising locations high in the Dellalt mountains. It was a hunt she never completed&mdash;the leader of the gang that ran the mining outfit, J'uoch, had her own designs on the treasure, and murdered Lanni in her own hunt for the log-recorder. However, before her death, Lanni had managed to secret the log-recorder away in Xim's treasure vault complex, keeping the artifact from J'uoch's hands. That allowed Hasti and Badure, who had narrowly escaped Dellalt ahead of J'uoch's vengeance, a shot at the treasure themselves. Returning to Dellalt with smugglers Han Solo and Chewbacca, and Ruurian scholar S. V. Skynx, Troujow's sister and father figure tracked the Queen of Ranroon treasure down, finishing what she had started. Along with her sister, Lanni Troujow shared an extremely close bond with Alexsandr Badure, who served as the young women's father figure and protector in the rough Dellalt mining camp. A shrewd investigator and a capable pilot, Troujow held a strong resemblance to her sister Hasti, with pale skin and red hair. Lanni Troujow was first mentioned in Han Solo and the Lost Legacy, a novel written by Brian Daley and released in 1980. *Han Solo and the Lost Legacy *A Guide to the Star Wars Universe *A Guide to the Star Wars Universe, Second Edition, Revised and Expanded *Star Wars Encyclopedia *A Guide to the Star Wars Universe, Third Edition, Revised and Expanded *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Troujow, Lanni Troujow, Lanni