74062
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Hasti_Troujow
Hasti Troujow
12833

Hasti Troujow was a Human female who played a crucial part in the discovery of the long-lost treasure ship Queen of Ranroon in 1 BBY. An orphan who grew up working menial jobs with her sister Lanni around the Tion Hegemony, Troujow developed a father-daughter bond with a former Imperial Navy officer named Alexsandr Badure, who looked after the sisters during their time with an illegal mining outfit on Dellalt. Lanni eventually stumbled across what appeared to be the Queen of Ranroon log-recorder while on a work run, and although she was murdered before they could launch a hunt for the ancient treasure, Hasti and Badure carried on in her name. With the help of Ruurian scholar S. V. Skynx and a pair of smugglers, Chewbacca and Han Solo&mdash;with whom Troujow developed a mutual attraction&mdash;they managed to uncover the ship's lost bounty beneath Dellalt's surface. Troujow and Badure later accepted positions working for Skynx on the ensuing archaeological project. A female Human, Hasti Troujow grew up with her sister Lanni, and had a tough upbringing in the Tion Hegemony. The sisters were orphaned at a young age, forcing them out into the world on their own: by the time she had become fully grown, Hasti had worked as a messhand, housegirl, sanitation crew, or any number of menial jobs at a variety of mines, camps and factories around the Tion. By the era of the Galactic Civil War, the Troujow sisters were working as contract labor on an illegal mining outfit on the planet Dellalt, run by a crime boss named J'uoch. Camp life was rough and chaotic, but the sisters survived with the help of a fellow laborer, a former Imperial Navy officer named Alexsandr "Trooper" Badure. The three looked out for one another, forming an extremely strong bond. Lanni had inherited a Pilot's Guild book from their father and often went into business making surface-to-surface runs, and on a trip in 1 BBY she happened across what appeared to be the log-recorder for the Queen of Ranroon, the legendary lost treasure ship belonging to the ancient galactic despot Xim. However, before they could act on this knowledge, J'uoch&mdash;who had her own designs on Xim's bounty&mdash;shot Lanni dead, and Badure and Hasti narrowly made it off Dellalt with their lives. Still, they proceeded on a plan to find the ancient treasure, reputed to be of unimaginable worth. As Badure was now the only important person left in her life, Troujow planned to use her two shares&mdash;one for her, and one for her late sister&mdash;to purchase a piece of land on her homeworld once owned by her parents, and there care for Badure as he grew old. First, they enlisted a renowned scholar of pre-Republic history and languages, a Ruurian university professor named S. V. Skynx, who could potentially decipher the ancient writing on the log-recorder. Next hoping to find someone with a ship to transport back them to Dellalt and help facilitate the treasure hunt, Troujow and Badure headed for the Rudrig spaceport, where they tracked landings and departures in search of a promising prospect. Their search ended when Badure recognized an old friend from his Academy days, Corellian smuggler Han Solo, who was stopping through Rudrig after running a job in the Tion Hegemony with his Wookiee first mate Chewbacca and droid crewmen Bollux and Blue Max. Although Troujow was unimpressed with the two smugglers, she had little choice when the pair agreed to take them in their Millennium Falcon, and they rendezvoused with Skynx and headed back to Dellalt. Of course, once on Dellalt nothing went as planned. Lanni had secreted the log-recorder within Xim's treasure vault complex before her death, and while Hasti disguised herself very effectively as her late sister, she was unable to find her way past the facility's voice-coder. And when she returned to the Falcon, they found that J'uoch and her gang had learned of their presence, and had brought plenty of hired guns. Although unarmed, Troujow was forced to physically get involved in the ensuing firefight in order to save Badure, but they were ultimately forced to flee into the wilderness and watch as J'uoch stole the Millennium Falcon. That forced them into an arduous trek spanning hundreds of kilometers through the mountains&mdash;Troujow faced several dangerous situations along the way, including brawling with a shore-gang while attempting to cross a large lake inhabited by Dellalt's Swimming People. After several weeks, their march seemingly ended in what appeared to be an abandoned shipyard high in the hills&mdash;however, a closer inspection revealed the ships to be fake, and Troujow and the organic members of the party were soon rendered unconscious by a mysterious gas. When they woke up, they found that they had been imprisoned by a mysterious group. Bollux and Blue Max, who were allowed to move freely, learned that their captors were an isolated and backwards clan that called itself the Survivors, and that they planned to sacrifice Troujow and her compatriots. The droids proved crucial to their escape: Blue Max used his built-in holoprojector to awe and distract the crowd with a video display, giving them a jump as they fled down the mountain ahead of heavy pursuit. Their wild escape spit them out in the foothills below J'uoch's mining camp, where they encountered an unexpected sight: 1,000 war-robots of Xim's ancient Guardian Corps, marching to battle against J'uoch's gang led by a man Troujow recognized as the assistant steward of the treasure vaults. The Millennium Falcon still their objective, Troujow and her compatriots now had to navigate an active battlefield, forcing them into the fight as well. Troujow personally took down a war droid with an disruptor pistol, before coming face to face with the woman who killed her sister, J'uoch. Troujow threw herself at J'uoch in a rage and ultimately got the better of the crime boss, grappling her over the side of a bridge and hurling her screaming to her death in the crevasse below. Troujow nearly went over the rail herself, only for Badure to pull her back at the last second. With the help of Gallandro, a hired gunman who had a complicated personal history with Solo, Troujow and her friends narrowly made it to the Millennium Falcon, and returned to the treasure vaults after learning from the assistant steward that the Queen of Ranroon bounty had in fact been held within all along. After blasting an opening into the treasure vaults with the Falcon guns, Troujow and Badure remained behind to guard the ship as Solo, Skynx and Gallandro proceeded within. They emerged without Gallandro&mdash;who had been killed after attempting to dispose of Solo and Skynx&mdash;but having found the treasure. However, they quickly realized that the Queen of Ranroon holdings, were, monetarily, almost worthless. The ship had in fact been packed with war materiel, items such as kiirium ingots that, while commonplace in the current day, had been tremendously valuable at the time. However, it was still a groundbreaking archaeological find, one that promised to revolutionize the study of pre-Republic history. As one of the ranking Xim scholars in the galaxy, Skynx took charge of the site and immediately offered both Troujow and Badure positions working with him, promising a potentially lucrative life in academia. The pair accepted on the spot, beginning a new chapter of their lives and parting ways for good with Han Solo. A short and slender Human woman with pale skin and red hair, Hasti Troujow was aloof to most around her, but carried a strong loyalty to "Trooper" Badure, who looked after her and her sister during the darkest times in their lives. The young woman saw Badure as a father figure, and his well-being became her primary concern. Unimpressed by the smugglers Han Solo and Chewbacca, Troujow regarded Solo in particular distaste at the beginning of their adventure to Dellalt, but gradually warmed to the pair. In fact, Solo and Troujow developed something of a mutual attraction&mdash;when she dressed up to impersonate her sister Lanni, Solo regarded her as one of the more attractive women he had ever seen, and Troujow found herself much more interested in Solo when he dropped what she saw as his slick-talking veneer. However, she still saw Solo as an unserious charmer who would never settle down, and was uninterested in pursuing anything with the Corellian. Although Troujow's youth and stature led Solo to underestimate her, she knew how to handle herself: hot-headed yet perceptive in a crisis, Troujow was an adept groundcar pilot and proved to be highly capable in a fight. Hasti Troujow first appeared in Han Solo and the Lost Legacy, a novel written by Brian Daley and released in 1980. *Rebel Dawn *Han Solo and the Lost Legacy *A Guide to the Star Wars Universe *A Guide to the Star Wars Universe, Second Edition, Revised and Expanded *Star Wars Encyclopedia *A Guide to the Star Wars Universe, Third Edition, Revised and Expanded *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Troujow, Hasti Troujow, Hasti