74205
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Anya_Karu
Anya Karu
8432

|retired= |battles= |affiliation=Galactic Empire |navy=Imperial Navy |fleet= |owners= |captains=Captain Aron Harcourt |crewmembers=A stormtrooper |registry= |aliases= }} The Anya Karu was an Imperial-class Star Destroyer serving the Galactic Empire's Imperial Navy during or prior to 3 BBY, shortly before the Galactic Civil War. Helmed by Captain Aron Harcourt, the Star Destroyer was brought down by Rebel saboteurs and left broken on a desolate planet. Disgraced and demoted by the Anya Karu demise, Harcourt hired the bounty hunter Boba Fett to retrieve a holorecording of his departed wife from the wreckage of the Anya Karu. Fett was able to retrieve the holorecording moments before the Imperial Adjudicator destroyed the Anya Karu fuselage. As an Imperial-class Star Destroyer, the Anya Karu was manufactured by Kuat Drive Yards, one of the largest shipyards in the galaxy during the time of the Galactic Empire. At 1,600 meters in length, the Anya Karu possessed the same characteristics of other Imperial Star Destroyers, such as the massive bridge located toward the aft of the warship. thumb|left|180px|Boba Fett in the Anya Karu Helmed by Captain Aron Harcourt, the Anya Karu belonged to the Galactic Empire's Imperial Navy during or prior to 3 BBY, shortly before the outbreak of the Galactic Civil War.Imperial Sourcebook As Harcourt was a hero of the Empire, he and the Anya Karu were granted certain privileges, one such being that Harcourt could keep an RHTC-560 Hunter Trainer droid and two RHTC-560 HT Drones as bodyguards, given to him by a Rodian warlord. Sometime before or during the year 3 BBY, Rebel agents sabotaged the Anya Karu, causing it to crash on a barren planet. As the vessel went down, Harcourt gave the order to abandon ship. In response to the loss of one of their capital ships, the Imperials put in a formal Inquiry before having Harcourt used as the scapegoat for the incident, forcing him out of the command structure and placing him in control of a distant outpost, as the Empire did not want to admit that they had lost one of their ships to Rebel sabotage. Around three years after the incident, Harcourt hired the infamous bounty hunter Boba Fett to retrieve an old holorecording that he had left on the Anya Karu of his wife, Janelle Harcourt, who had died around 3 BBY. thumb|right|180px|Slave I escapes as the Anya Karu is destroyed Fett arrived at the wreckage of the Anya Karu in his Firespray-31-class patrol and attack craft Slave I, destroyed the two TIE fighters patrolling the restricted area, and boarded the ship twenty-five minutes to spare before the Imperial I-class Star Destroyer Adjudicator arrived to destroy it. While onboard the Anya Karu, the bounty hunter discovered a dead stormtrooper, fought off a pack of winged mynocks that had taken refuge on the ship, and destroyed Harcourt's old Hunter Trainer droids. Fett secured the recording and left the ship, which was destroyed via turbolaser fire from the Adjudicator seconds later. The Anya Karu was under the command of Captain Aron Harcourt, with thirty years of experience as a commanding officer by the time she was sabotaged. Serving as bodyguards to Harcourt were an RHTC-560 Hunter Trainer and two RHTC-560 HT drones, gifted to him from a Rodian warlord. Also in service aboard the Anya Karu was at least one Imperial stormtrooper, whose body Fett later found while searching the ship. The Anya Karu first appeared Empire 28, a comic-book illustrated by Adriana Melo, Michael Atiyeh, and Michael David Thomas, and scripted by Ron Marz. The issue was released by Dark Horse Comics on December 29, 2004. *Empire 28 Category:Imperial-class Star Destroyers Category:Starships of the Galactic Empire