74637
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Corragut
Corragut
4298

The Corragut were a sentient species hailing from Altawar, a planet in the Core Worlds' Corellian sector. After the species was discovered by Corellians, the Corragut were offered opportunities upon introduction to the wider galaxy. However, they subsequently became a "client planet" for the planet Corellia&mdash;which was governed by a Human-centric culture&mdash;and had little say in governing themselves. The Corragut were a sentient species native to the planet Altawar, in the Corellian sector of the Core Worlds. The species was capable of making crafts and goods from Altawar's resources and aspired to trade these with other locations in the galaxy upon their introduction to galactic affairs. For some time, the species maintained a general ignorance of the galaxy's ongoing events, and their technology was considered "backward" by the standards of some Human cultures. Early in the years of the planet Corellia's expansion, Altawar was discovered by the Corellian sector, and therefore the wider galaxy, alongside several other worlds and their speciesCoruscant and the Core Worlds&mdash;such as the Frozians of the planet Froz and the Nosaurians of the planet New Plympto. The Corragut were excited to interact with other civilizations due to the opportunities presented to them. thumb|right|300px|Bureaucrats and policy makers on Corellia (pictured) controlled most of the Corragut's affairs following their introduction to the wider galaxy. However, due to the Corragut's lack of expertise in galactic affairs and general lack of technology compared to Corellia and its Human-centric culture, Corellian bureaucrats and policy makers ultimately rendered Altawar a "client planet" for Corellia, which restricted the species' ability to make trade and defense decisions. The Corellians insisted that their lack of influence was for their safety and prosperity, thus allowing the species to provide tradeable goods to the galaxy while receiving technology in return. However, over an extended period of time, Corellians restricted the technology given to the Corragut and deprived them of military assets. By the time of the Galactic Empire's reign, most Corragut were displeased with the Corellians' overseer-like treatment of their species. However, efforts to change their predicament stalled following the devastation of the Frozians' homeworld during the Galactic Civil War between the Empire and the Rebel Alliance, an event that overshadowed the Corragut's situation. The Corragut were first mentioned in the 2003 roleplaying game sourcebook Coruscant and the Core Worlds, published by Wizards of the Coast for use with Star Wars: The Roleplaying Game. *Coruscant and the Core Worlds *Suns of Fortune Category:Core Worlds sentient species