75084
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Mahwi_Lihnn
Mahwi Lihnn
4619

Mahwi Lihnn was a female Human bounty hunter who was active during the waning years of the Galactic Republic. In 42 BBY Mahwi Lihnn was forced to leave her homeworld after killing a corrupt government official. She soon took up bounty hunting. During her ten years of bounty hunting before 32 BBY, Mahwi Lihnn pursued bounties on Ord Mantell, Roon, Tatooine, and other worlds. In 32 BBY, Lihnn was hired by Rune Haako of the Trade Federation to rein in and bring back the "traitorous" Hath Monchar. Monchar had gone missing, much to the displeasure and slight worry of Darth Sidious. Sidious suspected that Monchar, who knew of the Trade Federation's upcoming blockade of Naboo, was treacherous and prepared to leak the sensitive plans. Lihnn would track down Hath Monchar, but it would prove to be her last bounty hunt. Visiting Coruscant for her first&mdash;and last&mdash;time, Lihnn searched Monchar's Kaldani Spires Residential apartment before tracking him to the Dewback Inn. Following the cloaked figure of Darth Maul, who was in turn following Monchar, Lihnn came to the Neimoidian's domicile only to find him already slain by Darth Maul. Maul, apprentice to Darth Sidious, had been dispatched by Sidious to kill Monchar and anybody he talked to. When the two hunters, knowing nothing of the other's parallel mission, encountered each other, Lihnn pulled her BlasTech DL-44 heavy blaster pistols on Maul. She held the upper hand with Maul backed into a corner, but the Sith used the Force to distract Lihnn by hurling a fallen bodyguard's blaster at her. Lihnn recovered quickly and fired at Maul as he ignited his double-bladed lightsaber. With the dark side of the Force guiding his every move, Maul reflected multiple shots back at the bounty hunter. However, none of the blaster bolts could penetrate Lihnn's shell spider silk armor. Despite this, Lihnn soon grew desperate and prepared to fire an wrist-mounted rocket. Maul, recognizing the devastation such a blast could cause, fled the scene by slicing through the adjacent wall and down through the floor. Lihnn realized as the rocket fired that the Sith had escaped and attempted to jump back into the hallway. Too late, the blast of the explosion slammed Lihnn halfway through the far wall and messily ended the career&mdash;and life&mdash;of the female bounty hunter. Mahwi Lihnn first appeared in the novel Darth Maul: Shadow Hunter. Mahwi Lihnn is voiced by Roger Jackson in Star Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds. She appears as a hero for the Trade Federation in the game's level editor. Like all the bounty hunter units of that faction, she is portrayed here as a white-skinned humanoid with a strange, high-pitched voice. *Star Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds *Darth Maul: Shadow Hunter *The New Essential Chronology *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Bounty hunters Category:Females Category:Humans Category:Trade Federation members