75166
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Uscru_Entertainment_District
Uscru Entertainment District
5046

The Uscru Entertainment District, also simply known as the Entertainment District, was the entertainment area located in the lower levels of the Uscru District on the planet Coruscant. The Uscru Entertainment District was the lower levels area of the planet Coruscant's Uscru District. It housed clubs and bars that hosted gambling, drinking and various other entertainment. The area had large crowds, constant traffic, and lit advertisement boards that announced the various services available. It made for a perfect area for fugitives to escape into and for criminals or those who did want attention to sell illicit goods and wares. It was the site of the popular Outlander Club, where people could bet on sporting events that were going on around the galaxy. thumb|300px|View of the district Just before the Clone Wars, Jedi Knight Obi-Wan Kenobi and Padawan Anakin Skywalker pursued bounty hunter Zam Wesell via airspeeder through the Coruscant skylanes before Skywalker forced Wesell to crash into the streets of the Uscru Entertainment District. He chased her to the entrance of the Outlander Club, where he met up with Kenobi and the two Jedi found and revealed the shapeshifting nature of the bounty hunter. However, before Wesell could reveal the identity of her benefactor, she was killed via a poison dart by Jango Fett, the bounty hunter who had hired her to assassinate Senator Padmé Amidala. Industrial Light & Magic model maker Grant Imahara worked on building the miniature set of the Coruscant streets in the Uscru Entertainment District. Star Wars: Absolutely Everything You Need to Know and Star Wars: Complete Locations both state that the Uscru Entertainment District was located in Coruscant's lower levels. In Ultimate Star Wars and its online Databank entry, the Galaxies Opera House is listed as being in the upper levels of the Uscru District with Ultimate Star Wars making a distinction in listing locations as being in either the upper levels of the Uscru District or in the lower levels of the "Entertainment District." As such, the Entertainment District is considered to be part of the larger "Uscru District" yet comprising the district's lower levels. *Star Wars: The Prequel Trilogy – A Graphic Novel *LEGO Star Wars: The Skywalker Saga *Ultimate Star Wars *Star Wars: Absolutely Everything You Need to Know |contents= }} *Star Wars: Complete Locations *Star Wars: The Complete Visual Dictionary, New Edition *Star Wars Encyclopedia: The Comprehensive Guide to the Star Wars Galaxy Category:Coruscant districts