75787
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Wookiee_dual_missile_turret
Wookiee dual missile turret
6778

The Wookiee dual missile turret, or Wookiee Dual Launcher, was a defensive anti-air emplacement individually produced by Wookiee turret crafters and employed during the Clone Wars between the Galactic Republic and the Confederacy of Independent Systems. The turret contained two explosive warhead-tipped missiles in as many launch tubes. It had a slow rate of fire but could pierce the hull of a starship, making the launcher perfectly suited to defend Wookiees from Trandoshan or Separatist forces. In 19 BBY, the clone commandos of Delta Squad used several Wookiee dual missile turrets to destroy a Separatist cruiser during their mission to the Wookiee homeworld of Kashyyyk. The Wookiee dual missile turret, also known as the Wookiee Dual Launcher, was a defensive anti-aircraft turret individually manufactured by Wookiee turret crafters. It had a flat base with a raised gunnery platform, from which a single operator could defend a position from aerial assault while protected by two physical shields, both colored brown with gold highlights. Two large, gray launch tubes fired explosive warhead-tipped missiles. The launcher suffered from a slow rate of fire, though the powerful missiles could pierce the hull of a starship and, with repeated fire, could even destroy a cruiser. The turret was most effective against large flying targets rather than ground units. The Wookiee dual missile turret saw use during the Clone Wars between the Galactic Republic and the Confederacy of Independent Systems, with the Republic-aligned Wookiees using the emplacements to defend against Trandoshan or Separatist aerial assaults. During the conflict, in 19 BBY,Order 66: A Republic Commando Novel places Star Wars: Republic Commando events on Kashyyyk 1,088 days after the First Battle of Geonosis, which and The New Essential Chronology respectively date to c. 13:5:21 in 22 BBY. According to , Galactic Standard Time was based on Coruscant's solar cycle, which lasted 368 days, according to The Essential Atlas. Therefore, the Republic Commando events on Kashyyyk correspond to the year 19 BBY. the clone commandos of the Republic's Delta Squad were deployed to the Wookiee homeworld of Kashyyyk, where they employed multiple Wookiee dual missile turrets to destroy a Separatist Recusant-class light destroyer. The turret was first featured on the LucasArts website for the 2005 video game Star Wars: Republic Commando, where it was labeled as the "Wookie Dual Launcher," including the misspelling of "Wookiee." In the game itself it was identified as a Wookiee dual missile turret. The 2008 novel tie-in Order 66: A Republic Commando Novel by Karen Traviss describes the Wookiee emplacement as a turbolaser battery with a seatOrder 66: A Republic Commando Novel instead of a standing platform for the gunner as depicted in the video game. *Star Wars: Republic Commando *Star Wars: Republic Commando: Prima Official Game Guide Category:Launcher emplacements Category:Wookiee weapons