76201
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Brimon_Yarar
Brimon Yarar
4395

Brimon Yarar was a General in the anti-alien Human League, and lead the group's Heritage Squads. Yarar was from the northern reaches of Corellia's main landmass. At some point after 13 ABY, he joined the Human League; an anti-alien extremist group founded by Thrackan Sal-Solo, a former member of Corellia's Imperial government. By 18 ABY, he had risen to the rank of General and oversaw a large excavating operation on the planet by the League's Heritage Squads, under the guise of a simple archeological dig to learn about early human history on Corellia &mdash; its actual purpose being to uncover an ancient underground repulsor. He gave a tour of the dig site to Leia Organa Solo and her family, during which Jacen, Jaina, and Anakin Solo broke away from the tour and found the repulsor, but decided not to tell the General, having seen through his friendly facade. Later on, after the Human League began an insurrection to take control of the entire Corellian sector, Yarar informed Sal-Solo of Drall's repulsor being activated, incorrectly believing the Drallist Front had done it. Yarar was a middle-aged, slightly larger Corellian man with dark skin, short dark hair, and a toothy smile. He held anti-alien sentiments to the point that he refused to even acknowledge the Wookiee Chewbacca and the Drall Ebrihim when they accompanied the Solo family on their tour of Corellia's planetary repulsor digsite. He had a soft voice which contained a slight accent from the northern regions of Corellia's main landmass. Yarar wore a dark brown uniform of a severe cut, a hat, and metal-toed black boots, as did the rest of the Human League's members, though minus the group's armband. His hat was slightly more elaborate than those worn by lower-ranking members, and an elaborate insignia designating his rank of General was pinned to his tunic's shoulder boards. *Ambush at Corellia *Showdown at Centerpoint *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Corellians Category:Humans Category:Males