76586
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Mandalorian_combat_suit
Mandalorian combat suit
4795

The Mandalorian combat suit was a model of Mandalorian armor in use during the Old Sith Wars. The Mandalorian combat suit was a full body armor. Although it was the most basic Mandalorian combat attire existing during the Old Sith Wars, it provided a formidable defense. Its mesh design was capable of absorbing a remarkable amount of kinetic force. The armor was not blaster-proof, but protected the wearer from small amounts of energy. In addition, this combat suit was extremely flexible, and provided a wide range of movement. thumb|[[Atton Rand wearing a Mandalorian combat suit (without helmet)]] The Mandalorian combat suit included a helmet with an internal comlink and could be equipped with a jetpack. The armor was sealed and included enough oxygen to provide the wearer ten hours of breathable air in the vacuum of space. The Mandalorian combat suit was the type of armor favored by Mandalorians before the beginning of the Mandalorian Wars. Hence, it was the most common armor worn by Mandalorian Crusaders during the Great Sith War. The Mandalorian armors used by the Crusaders were unique and customized in anticipation of battlefield or environment requirements. The style of the Crusader armors evolved throughout the Mandalorian Crusades but they remained heavily personalized by their owners until the disappearance of the Mandalorian Crusaders themselves. Later, Crusader armors were considered by Mandalorian Neo-Crusaders as the symbol of the individualism that caused the downfall of the Crusaders. During the Mandalorian Wars, almost every Crusader veteran finally joined the Neo-Crusaders and adopted the standardized Neo-Crusader light armor. However, a few Mandalorians refused to change their armor and continued to wear their old models of armors. A Mandalorian combat suit was still worn by Demagol during the Mandalorian Wars. Decades later, Mandalorian combat suits were still in use during the Dark Wars. The Mandalorian combat suit first appeared in the 2004 video game Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic II: The Sith Lords. The Knights of the Old Republic Campaign Guide later provided more information about this armor and identified the Mandalorian armor worn by Demagol in the Knights of the Old Republic comic series as a Mandalorian combat suit. *Knights of the Old Republic 8 *Knights of the Old Republic 10 *Knights of the Old Republic 40 *Knights of the Old Republic 47 *Knights of the Old Republic 48 *Knights of the Old Republic 50 *Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic II: The Sith Lords *Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic II: The Sith Lords: Prima Official Game Guide *Knights of the Old Republic Campaign Guide Category:Light armor Category:Mandalorian armor