76591
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Mandalorian_battle_armor
Mandalorian battle armor
6404

The Mandalorian battle armor was a model of Mandalorian armor in use during the Old Sith Wars. The Mandalorian battle armor was a full body armor developed as a heavier version of the Mandalorian combat suit. The armor included a helmet with an internal comlink and could be equipped with a jetpack. In addition, the suit contained enough oxygen to provide the wearer 10 hours of breathable air. The battle armor was particularly resilient to electrical-based attacks. thumb|right|200px|[[Atton Rand wearing a Mandalorian battle armor (without helmet)]] Mandalorian battle armors were used by Mandalorian Crusaders during the Great Sith War and one such armor was worn by Mandalore the Indomitable himself. Later, during the Mandalorian Wars, most Mandalorians joined the Neo-Crusader movement and adopted the Neo-Crusader light armor. However, veterans such as Rohlan Dyre continued to wear their old-fashioned battle armor during this conflict. Cassus Fett might have sometimes worn a battle armor in place of his usual golden Neo-Crusader light armor. Decades later, Mandalorian battle armors were still in use during the Jedi Civil War and the Dark Wars. During that time, Canderous Ordo wore a heavy Mandalorian battle armor as he assumed the position of Mand'alor as Mandalore the Preserver. The Mandalorian battle armor first appeared in the 2003 video game Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic. The Knights of the Old Republic Campaign Guide later provided more information about this armor and identified the Mandalorian armors worn by Mandalore the Indomitable in the Tales of the Jedi comic series and by Rohlan Dyre in the Knights of the Old Republic comic series as battle armors. *Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic II: The Sith Lords }} *Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic: Prima's Official Strategy Guide *Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic II: The Sith Lords: Prima Official Game Guide *Knights of the Old Republic Campaign Guide Category:Mandalorian armor