76695
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Royal_crusader
Royal crusader
4269

The Naboo Royal crusaders were the elite members of the Royal Naboo Security Forces. In battle, they rode large, powerful guarlara steeds and charged into the heart of enemy infantry. They employed powerful melee weapons rather than blaster rifles and were outfitted at Security Force fortresses. Crusaders were typically equipped for attacking mechanized units, turrets, and troopers, but were vulnerable against aircraft and lightsaber-bearing soldiers. In addition to the crusaders, the even more well-equipped Elite Royal Crusaders could deal more powerful blows to enemy forces on the battlefield and were protected by shields. In 32 BBY, seven crusaders were used by the Royal Naboo Security Forces to defend the Naboo settlement of Harte Secur during the Invasion of Naboo by the Trade Federation, a galactic megacorporation. The crusaders were killed, however, and the Federation conquered the city. Four crusaders loyal to the Naboo Royal Navy were also present when the Trade Federation invaded the city Spinnaker. They attacked a Federation-occupied village but were defeated. Crusaders received their first mention in the Prima strategy guide to the 2001 LucasArts video game Star Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds, where they were incorrectly stated to cost 100 units of food. They later appeared in the game during the second Trade Federation mission, titled "Behind the Lines," and exclusively in the hard difficulty mode of the third level, "Spinnaker's Spoils." Royal crusaders are the Naboo civilization's unique units that are produced at fortresses for a cost of 150 units of food and eighty units of nova crystals. They are stronger than many of the game's other melee units. Among enhancements made by the developers for the 2002 expansion pack, Clone Campaigns, Royal Crusaders became cheaper to produceStar Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds: Clone Campaigns manual&mdash;now costing 125 food and sixty nova crystalsStar Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds: Clone Campaigns&mdash;gaining greater movement speed, and doing more damage to turrets and walls. *Star Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds *Star Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds: Clone Campaigns *Star Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds: Prima's Official Strategy Guide Category:Military units Category:Royal Naboo Security Forces