76790
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Tanallay_Surge_complex
Tanallay Surge complex
4855

The Tanallay Surge complex was a major political and recreational hub on the Expansion Region world of Tynna. The seat of the Tynnan government, it was surrounded by water chutes and fountains and was several stories in height. During the Yuuzhan Vong War, the extra-galactic Yuuzhan Vong assaulted Tynna and landed at the Surge complex to begin a program of terraforming on the planet. The Tanallay Surge complex was a legislative and recreational installation on the Expansion RegionThe Essential Atlas planet of Tynna, and the seat of the Tynnan government. It was several stories high, spread out over a large area and fronted by a wide set of steps linked to a picturesque lagoon. Surrounded by many pools, water chutes, and fountains, the complex was the site of the Tanallay Surge posting agency, a posting agency frequented by bounty hunters. During the Yuuzhan Vong War, in 26 ABY, the extra-galactic Yuuzhan Vong attacked Tynna, defeating its meager defensive contingent of starfighters, and made planetfall at the Tanallay Surge complex. As they did so, an unarmed group of several hundred Tynnans&mdash;tricked by the collaborationist Peace Brigade into surrendering Tynna to the invaders without firing a shotThe New Jedi Order Sourcebook&mdash;awaited the landing force at the main steps above the lagoon. The Yuuzhan Vong force led by Supreme Commander Nas Choka and Commander Malik Carr, however, had no intentions of meeting with the Tynnans and left them to wait at the Surge complex. In the meantime, the Yuuzhan Vong began the biological engineering of Tynna's oceans, releasing a chemical from their dropships to optimize the water for the cultivation of biots such as dovin basals for use in their further conquest of the galaxy. These events were witnessed by a New Republic stealth ship as they were broadcast via satellite to every city on Tynna. The Tanallay Surge complex was first mentioned in the 1998 reference book The Essential Guide to Planets and Moons, which was written by Daniel Wallace and illustrated by Brandon McKinney and Scott Kolins. The complex later made its first appearance in James Luceno's 2000 novel, The New Jedi Order: Agents of Chaos II: Jedi Eclipse. *The New Jedi Order: Agents of Chaos II: Jedi Eclipse *The Essential Guide to Planets and Moons *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia *The Bounty Hunter Code: From the Files of Boba Fett Category:Expansion Region structures Category:Government facilities Category:Tynna locations