76886
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Jolee_Bindo
Jolee Bindo
20095

Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic |birth= |death= |species=Human |gender=Male |pronouns=He/him |height= |mass= |hair=Black |feathers= |eyes=Brown |skin=Dark |cyber= |families= |parents= |partners=Nayama |siblings= |children= |affiliation=*Jedi Order *Galactic Republic |masters= |apprentices=Nayama }} Jolee Bindo was a male Human Jedi who served the Jedi Order and the Galactic Republic during the Great Sith War. Having participated in several Rimward missions, Bindo fought against Exar Kun, and went into self-imposed exile on Kashyyyk soon afterwards. Near the close of the Jedi Civil War, he joined Revan against Darth Malak and the Sith Empire. A Force-sensitive Human, Jolee Bindo was inducted into the Jedi Order and trained in the ways of the Force at the Coruscant Jedi Temple. During his days as a Padawan, Bindo was considered brash and reckless, often defying the will of the Jedi High Council in order to do what he felt was right, as exemplified by his actions during the blockade of the Ukatis system. Cut off from the rest of the galaxy by its own king, the Ukatis system was unable to receive food and supplies, and no help from the Senate was forthcoming. Bindo decided to help the people himself. He acquired a ship and was joined by a friend. Together they stole from the rich, considering it a "tax on the greedy," and ran the supplies through the blockade to the planet. Eventually, his craft was shot down on the planet by none other than his future wife, Nayama, and the two were married, although marriage was frowned upon by many Jedi of the time. He discovered her to be strong in the Force, and he took to training her personally despite the advice of the High Council and his Padawan status. During the war with Exar Kun, his wife, like many other Jedi, fell to the dark side. She attempted to turn Bindo, who resisted, culminating in a vicious lightsaber duel, which brought her to her knees. Unable to kill his own wife, Bindo let her go; this would ultimately lead to the deaths of many Jedi at her hands before she was finally struck down in battle. A sensitive topic for Bindo, the Jedi believed that he was unlucky in his life and just had, "So many bad memories, some you never want to think about ever again." In fact, it took much prodding and questioning by Revan to extract any information about his wife at all, much less the entire story. The Council did not punish Bindo for his actions, though, stating that he had learned his lesson the hard way. When instead they wished to promote him to the status of Jedi Knight, Bindo lost faith in the wisdom of the Council and went into self-exile, giving up his aspirations to be a Jedi Consular. After spending a year in the home of his good friend Sunry, Bindo took to wandering the stars. He drifted for years, keeping employed when necessary. For a time he even took up smuggling, and he was not above using a Jedi mind trick to get past customs. Eventually he crashed on Kashyyyk and explored the Shadowlands for the next twenty years. At first, the Wookiees believed him to be a benevolent forest spirit, calling him "the hairless one," and so left gifts and fruits outside of his dwelling, until the old hermit explained the truth to them, albeit with some embarrassment, as he was knocked out cold by Freyyr, who wanted to see if the spirit was solid. Still, Bindo remained a friend of the Wookiees, helping them protect the Shadowlands and its wildlife from poachers. He often wandered through the forest, ready to defend himself from predators, sentient or not, with his lightsaber. Late during his wandering, he discovered an ancient computer guarding a Star Map, and ended up making 152 attempts to communicate with it; however, the computer had been secretly reprogrammed by Revan, during his first trip to Kashyyyk with Darth Malak, to respond to nobody but himself. thumb|left|250px|Bindo defends himself from a pack of Katarns. When Revan passed through the Shadowlands a second time, once more seeking Star Maps, he encountered Bindo, who was fighting off a pack of Katarns. Bindo attached himself to the party, partly out of boredom and partly to face his own past. He was one of the few members of the party to know Revan's true identity all along, although he decided that it was not his place to say. As he traveled with Revan, he was often reminded of an old friend, Nomi Sunrider, whom he had known during his time as a Jedi. On Manaan, Jolee met his old friend Sunry when Sunry was awaiting trial for the murder of Elassa Huros. Although the ultimate outcome of the trial is not recorded, Jolee was greatly disturbed to learn that Sunry had committed the crime and was reluctant to accept Sunry's justification for the act. At one point, Revan questioned Bindo as to why the old man had accompanied him. Bindo responded by relating the story of a man who followed a snake, only to be bitten and killed by it. When questioned about his motives by the snake, the man replied that he had been leading the snake away from his village. Revan could only puzzle over what his role in relation to the story was. Bindo's professed neutrality, already belied by joining Revan, was rendered further questionable when Revan landed on Rakata Prime, the home planet of the Rakata. When the Rakatan priest caste allowed Revan into the Temple of the Ancients to disable the Star Forge's disruptor field, they insisted on him going into the temple alone. Bindo, however, persuaded the priests to allow him and fellow Jedi Juhani to strengthen Revan's resolve to not be seduced by the dark side again - this time by Bastila Shan. Bindo remained with Revan until the end, and along with Revan's other companions, was honored at the Republic's celebration of their victory over Darth Malak. Bindo dropped out of the public eye by the end of the Dark Wars, serving the High Council in an absentee role for several years before disappearing completely. Several articles of clothing believed to have once belonged to him were in circulation during Meetra Surik's journey to rebuild the Order.Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic II: The Sith Lords A holostatue of Bindo was erected in the Leisure Garden section of the Axial Park in the Coronet City on Corellia, along with the statues of Revan and his other companions. thumb|left|125px|Jolee Bindo Even during his days with the Order, Bindo allowed emotion to drive his actions, and thus walked a fine line between the light and dark sides of the Force, claiming that he saw "only in gray." Despite his view, Bindo clearly believed that there was evil in the galaxy, as witnessed during the fall of his wife to the dark side as well as his experiences during his time in the Ukatis System. Likewise, Bindo's "gray" view didn't stop him from having a stable position against the Sith, and being a good man throughout his life. He appeared as a cantankerous old man who readily dismissed the galaxy and its troubles with an impatient wave of his hand. Bindo appeared to outsiders as a grumpy old man, directing his scorn at both the young and old alike, but his care and wisdom still shone through the many layers he draped around his heart. He insisted that all he wanted was peace, and yet he was drawn back to war when Revan arrived in the Shadowlands for a second time. Bindo sensed a powerful destiny ahead of Revan, though he insisted that he was simply along for the ride. Even when Shan insisted that Bindo was a Jedi and needed the Order's structure, he waved her off, saying he had done plenty well without it. Likewise, he cautioned Carth Onasi's insistence that the universe would be irreparably changed should Malak succeed in collapsing the Republic: Jolee Bindo was prone to speaking in story and allegory, with a sense of humor that was wickedly sarcastic and more than a bit self-derisive. In addition to the snake story, he told the tale about a Jedi Master named Hortath (or possibly Hartoth, according to Bindo's own memory), who was blind and refused to believe he was, who met a Padawan who asked him for directions, not knowing that Hortath was blind. He followed the master's incorrect direction unthinkingly, and a Council who may have covered up for the blind master out of their own blind adherence to rank. Even his tale about Andor Vex was a cautionary tale intended to get Revan looking at the potential for folly. Still, he never considered himself Revan's teacher in any form: In his various conversations with Revan, Bindo appeared to stay on topic, at least for a little while, before (seemingly) randomly moving off into one of many various memories of someone he encountered or heard of as a Jedi Padawan in the Order, such as that of Hortath or Andor Vex (above). When asked the moral or meaning of these stories, he usually gave an answer similar to, "Someone my age is entitled to ramble, dammit!" Revan never really knew if there was a meaning to these stories, though they did keep him moderately entertained. thumb|right|200px|Jolee Bindo using [[Animal bond|Beast Control on a creature on Kashyyyk.]] Despite the fact that he followed the Jedi way and used the Force, Bindo did not consider himself part of the Order because of his history, or rather due to the fact that the Order had failed him. He never officially progressed beyond the rank of Padawan, although he explained to Revan once that he was to be knighted before he went into exile. His time in the Shadowlands only enhanced his survival skills. He had even learned to craft medicine from simple herbs, without any access to kolto or medical supplies. He could also speak Huttese.Knights of the Old Republic Campaign Guide Physically, despite his age, Bindo's time living in the dangerous Shadowlands kept his body in shape and nimble and saw him into dangerous situations on a regular basis. Even though lightsaber combat was not his primary strength compared to his command of the Force, the very first time he talked to Revan, several katarns had fallen to his lightsaber. In their travels, Bindo would display his signature talent for Jedi Mind tricks, something he thought could serve them well when Admiral Saul Karath ambushed them, if he was going to be their Leviathan prison break agent. He possessed a unique personality that allowed him to command the Force through both its light and dark sides. Lack of records have made it impossible to know the specific extent of Bindo's powers, but he could have potentially mastered dark arts such as Force lightning as easily as any other power, which would have been nearly unthinkable for most light-sided Jedi of the time. He possessed some skill in damaging his opponents internal organs with the Force. thumb|250px|Early concept art of Jolee. Jolee Bindo is a playable character in the computer and video games Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic. He was voiced by Kevin Michael Richardson, and was written by David Gaider. His Databank entry claims that: "Though a useful ally, Jolee is not crucial to the completion of the KOTOR storyline." This is contradictory because Revan actually needs Bindo to get past a Czerka force field that stands in his way to one of the Star Maps as he is the only one who could get past that force field and he is an obligate party member in the Temple of the Ancients. Also, the face-off with Bastila Shan on the Temple is a re-run of Bindo's with Nayama, of which Revan learns during their journeys; there is little margin for error that Revan's final choice of allegiance and final confrontation with Bastila were meant to be influenced by Bindo's experience. Despite his issues with the Order, when he was called to make a choice, Bindo proclaimed his standing with the Jedi; he did so with Sunry, and would with Revan if he chose to reclaim the mantle of Dark Lord. His tendency to follow the light side is also matched by a Force alignment score of 55. thumb|Jolee Bindo's lightsaber in the Old Republic. Promotional pictures depict Bindo wielding a blue-bladed lightsaber instead of the green one he wields in-game, which is the signature color for his Jedi Consular class. Game files indicate that, like Bastila Shan and Juhani, Bindo too was meant to have his own special ability, namely Psychic Static, an advanced Mind trick variant. In Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic II: The Sith Lords, there are two items that might have belonged to Bindo: Bindo's band and Jolee's robe. In the same game, Brianna asks the Jedi Exile about how love conflicts with the Jedi Code, saying that either the lovers would be removed from the order or must maintain a secret love. The Exile responds by calling it "Pulling a Bindo." This is a reference to Bindo when he married secretly. In the non-canonical dark side story, Revan embraced the dark side at the Temple of the Ancients summit on the Rakatan homeworld. He reclaimed his title of Darth Revan, Dark Lord of the Sith and accepted Bastila Shan as his apprentice. Jolee Bindo and Juhani tried to prevent this but they were struck down by Darth Revan and his new apprentice. *Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic *The Old Republic: Revan *Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic II: The Sith Lords *Star Wars: The Old Republic *Star Wars: The Old Republic Cartel Market *Star Wars: Galaxy of Heroes *Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic: Prima's Official Strategy Guide *Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic II: The Sith Lords: Prima Official Game Guide *Knights of the Old Republic Campaign Guide *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia *Star Wars: The Old Republic Encyclopedia Category:Former Jedi Category:Gray Jedi Category:Humans Category:Individuals with he/him pronouns Category:Jedi Consulars Category:Jedi trainees of the Jedi Order Category:Kashyyyk residents Category:Males Category:Smugglers