77949
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Singularity_mine
Singularity mine
4965

Singularity mines were small, black, seedpod-like mines used by members of the Yuuzhan Vong species during the Yuuzhan Vong War. They were capable of creating a two-meter-wide singularity via a dovin basal that crushed any being to death who broke its shell and triggered it. In 27 ABY, Yuuzhan Vong&ndash;allied Senator Viqi Shesh and Yuuzhan Vong warriors used the mines to slow down a group of New Republic pursuers aboard the starferry Byrt over the planet Coruscant. Singularity mines appeared like tiny black seedpods, with some of them being heart-shaped, and each contained a miniature gravity-manipulating dovin basal. The outer shell of the mine was weak enough to break when stepped upon. When the shell was broken, the dovin basal inside would create a singularity, instantaneously crushing to the size of molecules any nearby matter&mdash;sentient or otherwise&mdash;within the singularity's two-meter diameter. Due to the mines' fragility and lethality, the Yuuzhan Vong only distributed them to the most experienced or expendable warriors.The New Jedi Order Sourcebook thumb|left|190px|Viqi Shesh used singularity mines aboard the Byrt. Yuuzhan Vong warriors used singularity mines during the extra-galactic species' invasion of the galaxy, engaging such governments as the New Republic. In 27 ABY, the Yuuzhan Vong overran the New Republic's capital world of Coruscant. During the chaos, Yuuzhan Vong&ndash;allied Senator Viqi Shesh and squads of Yuuzhan Vong warriors boarded the starferry Byrt as it attempted to escape Coruscant, intent on capturing Jedi Master Luke Skywalker's infant son, Ben, who was aboard. Pursued by the entrepreneur Lando Calrissian and a unit of YVH-Series battle droids through the corridors of the starferry, Shesh and some warriors deployed singularity mines to hinder or kill those following them. YVH 1-25A was lost to the mines, though Calrissian and the other droids surpassed the obstacle by temporarily turning off the Byrt gravity, thus causing the singularity mines to hit the walls and floor of the corridor and trigger. Shesh ultimately escaped both the Bryt and those following her, though Ben was kept safe during the fighting. Singularity mines first appeared in author Troy Denning's 2001 novel, Star by Star, an installment of The New Jedi Order series. *The New Jedi Order: Star by Star *The New Jedi Order Sourcebook Category:Gravitational weaponry Category:Mines Category:Yuuzhan Vong weapons