78279
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Churhee%27s_Riflemen
Churhee's Riflemen
3732

The Churhee's Riflemen were a specialized low profile mercenary group located on the fringes of the Outer Rim Territories. The Riflemen primarily used a modified version of the SoroSuub Kylan-15 blaster rifle. Churhee's Riflemen organized themselves in a similar fashion to a typical Galactic Empire scout troop. With about 240 members, the Riflemen divided themselves between eight platoons of 30 men each, along with an assortment of support personnel. The platoons were further divided into ten man squads led by a lieutenant, or lances of five men led by a sergeant. Multiple groups were usually supervised by sergeant majors. Riflemen training was strenuous, so much so that only about five percent of the trainees were accepted into the group and given the rank of frontiersman. thumb|left|200px|A member of Churhee's Riflemen. They operated primarily within the Sarin and Parmel sectors, but were virtually wiped out in the Y'Trella system due to a lack of support from the Galactic Empire. This led the group, led by Vlaydm Churhee's widow Maydla and including Rathe Palror, to work with the Alliance to Restore the Republic instead. Its most celebrated victory while working with the Rebel Alliance was the Ryoone Campaign when the Riflemen fought a month long engagement with the Lightning Squadron. The headquarters of the Riflemen was on Turcan III, the site of their greatest triumph. They also trained on the planets Vohai and Parein II. The Riflemen were also very welcoming to non-humans, particularly Lafrarians and Ri'Dars, who possessed superior distance vision. *"Side Trip" *Galaxy Guide 9: Fragments from the Rim *Galaxy Guide 12: Aliens — Enemies and Allies *Cynabar's Fantastic Technology: Droids *Gundark's Fantastic Technology: Personal Gear *Platt's Smugglers Guide *Rules of Engagement: The Rebel SpecForce Handbook *Ultimate Adversaries *Galaxy at War Category:Mercenary units Category:Outer Rim Territories organizations