79596
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Ithorian_starfruit
Ithorian starfruit
6233

*Starfruit creme liqueur |affiliation=Dex's Diner }} Ithorian starfruit was a variety of starfruit that was edible by Ithorians and many other species. It could be eaten plain or used in other dishes. Ithorian starfruit was served around the galaxy, including within the eatery Dex's Diner on the planet Coruscant. Ithorian starfruit, a variety of starfruit, was a type of fruit whose peel came off easily when the fruit was overripe. The fruit could be consumed by a variety of species, including Bothans, Cathar, Cereans, Duros, Herglics, Humans, Ithorians, Mon Calamari, Sullustans, Twi'leks, Wookiees, and Zeltrons. Ithorian starfruit could be blended into a light starfruit creme liqueur. It could also be used as a garnish on salads such as on the herd ship's bounty salad, a variant of the covado salad. Dexter Jettster, the owner of the eatery Dex's Diner on the planet Coruscant, served the herd ship's bounty salad in his restaurant, which included Ithorian starfruit as a garnish. In his menu, he complimented the Ithorians on their salad skills. In 19 BBY,The New Essential Chronology dates the Battle of Coruscant to 19 BBY. during the Battle of Coruscant, Jedi Master Obi-Wan Kenobi dodged an explosion that he believed would have peeled back the armor on his starfighter like an overripe Ithorian starfruit. When the luxury repulsortrain Gem of Alderaan launched sometime around 17 BBY"Echoes of the Jedi," the fourth installment of the Dawn of Defiance campaign, states that the Jedi Master Vhiin Thorla traveled to the Almas Academy two years after Order 66 was issued, an event that is dated to 19 BBY by The New Essential Chronology. "The Gem of Alderaan" is said to take place at least six months afterward, placing the launch at some point around 17 BBY. on the planet Alderaan, starfruit creme liqueur was served in the dining car. thumb|right|63px|Starfruit in Tiny Death Star Ithorian starfruit was first mentioned in Matthew Stover's 2005 novelization of the prequel trilogy film of the same year, Star Wars: Episode III Revenge of the Sith. In the non-canon video game Star Wars: Tiny Death Star, released in 2013, Ithorian starfruit made its first appearance and received a visual depiction for the first time, depicted as a small pink fruit. It was served in the "Ithorian Food" level of Death Star I, cost 350 credits, and took thirty-five minutes to prepare.Star Wars: Tiny Death Star *Star Wars: Revenge of the Sith novelization *Star Wars: Tiny Death Star Category:Fruits and vegetables Category:Ithorian food