80184
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Wolf_Sazen
Wolf Sazen
44973

Wolf Sazen was a male Zabrak Jedi Master who was active during the Sith–Imperial War and the subsequent Second Imperial Civil War against Darth Krayt's Galactic Empire. He was Kol Skywalker's Padawan and the Jedi Master of Kol's son, Cade. Before Cade's training could be completed, Darth Krayt's army of Sith, led by Darth Nihl, attacked the Jedi Academy on Ossus and Kol was killed fighting them off so that the Jedi younglings and Padawans could escape. Nihl grievously wounded Sazen during the battle by cutting off his right arm and stabbing his chest, though Cade used the Force to bring him back from the brink of death. Ultimately, however, Cade fled to fight the Sith while Sazen and the other survivors escaped, and the young Skywalker was presumed dead. Sazen spent several years in hiding, until he and Jedi Knight Shado Vao encountered Skywalker on Vendaxa. Sazen believed that Skywalker would be the one to unite the Jedi against Darth Krayt, though his former apprentice did not want to be a Jedi, and parted ways with Sazen and Vao. They eventually met again at the ruins of the Jedi Praxeum on Ossus, and Skywalker agreed to continue his training. However, Skywalker left after only just weeks, to face Krayt on Coruscant. Sazen, Vao, Jedi Master K'Kruhk, and their Yuuzhan Vong allies were hiding in the Jedi Academy when the Sith destroyed it, though they survived to take refuge at the Hidden Temple. Sazen later went after his former apprentice as the forces opposing the Sith were joining together in an alliance. On the world of Wayland, Sazen successfully drove Cade back to the light side by telling him to use it instead of the dark side. After Cade swore to wage war against the Sith as their worst enemy and not as a Jedi, Sazen joined him and his friends and fought alongside Cade in his hunt for Sith scientist Vul Isen. Cade and Sazen tracked the Givin to Utapau, where the Zabrak slew Darth Azard and Skywalker killed Isen. However, their success was tainted by news of Darth Krayt's resurrection. Shortly afterwards, Krayt's forces launched an all-out assault on the Hidden Temple. Sazen participated in the battle, but was forced to retreat with the arrival of specially-bred Sith troopers. Fleeing to Bastion, the allied Jedi-Imperial-Alliance fleet decided to attack a vulnerable Coruscant. Sazen became a member of a small strike team to infiltrate the capital's planetary defense grid, ultimately succeeding in shutting it down. Heading to the Temple of the Sith, the Jedi Master engaged in a duel with Darth Stryfe, a fight in which neither survived. As Wolf Sazen became one with the Force, his former apprentice rushed off and succeeded in killing Darth Krayt, ending the war. thumb|right|190px|Master Sazen A Zabrak male, Wolf Sazen was found to be Force-sensitive and joined the New Jedi Order. He was apprenticed to Kol Skywalker, spending the majority of his time training as Skywalker's Padawan on Ossus. Sazen embraced the Living Force, and spent much of his time as a Jedi meditating and contemplating the future.Legacy (2006) 11 He eventually achieved Knighthood; by 130 ABY, Sazen had become a Jedi Master, and was an important instructor at the Jedi training facility on Ossus. He took Kol's son, Cade Skywalker, as his own Padawan, training him alongside Kol's new apprentice, Shado Vao. During their time as peers, Sazen and Kol grew very close. During Cade Skywalker's training, Kol was heavily involved in the Ossus Project, in which the Yuuzhan Vong used their biological shaping abilities to terraform areas of Ossus that had become barren and inhospitable; the New Jedi Order hoped it would integrate the Yuuzhan Vong and reduce public animosity towards them caused by the Yuuzhan Vong War. The project was sabotaged, however, and the Galactic Empire waged war on the Jedi and the Galactic Federation of Free Alliances. The Sith order, led by Dark Lord of the Sith Darth Krayt, came out of hiding and joined the Empire, turning the tide of the war and forcing the Galactic Alliance into surrender. Coruscant fell to the Empire and the Sith, and the Jedi scattered; Emperor Roan Fel, who knew the Jedi's efforts to rehabilitate Ossus had been sabotaged by the Sith guaranteed not to strike at the Jedi as they all returned to Ossus under Kol Skywalker's orders. Sazen was among the most senior Jedi who reached Ossus. thumb|left|250px|Wolf loses his arm to Darth Nihl. Darth Krayt did not uphold Fel's promise, however, and sent hordes of his Sith followers and stormtroopers, led by the Nagai Darth Nihl, to attack the Jedi. The stormtroopers led the first wave of the attack, though Sazen, fighting alongside his former master Kol, was able to hold them at bay. They ordered the Jedi Padawans, including Cade and Vao, to evacuate the younglings while the two Masters made a stand at the Jedi Shuttle's landing platform. The two Jedi Masters could sense the presence of the Sith through the Force and knew that Nihl and his cohorts would soon be upon them. Realizing that the shuttle could only escape if they occupied the Sith for several minutes, Sazen and Skywalker ordered their apprentices to leave Ossus without them; they felt that their own lives were less important than those of the youths. Cade Skywalker returned to fight alongside Sazen, claiming that the Zabrak Master needed him more than the other apprentices at the ship did. Eventually, Cade left after stern orders from his father, and Darth Nihl and his legions of Sith arrived. While Kol fought off several other Sith, Sazen dueled Nihl, though the Sith Lord was too powerful for him; he cut off Sazen's right arm and used the Force to hurl him back behind Kol. The Jedi Master was determined to go down fighting, and began to engage the remainder of the Sith in battle. Cade arrived again, taking Sazen's body back to the shuttle. thumb|right|225px|Skywalker uses the Force to revive Sazen. Sazen was close to death, and the younglings on the shuttle feared for him. The Zabrak himself was calm, though, telling the others that there was no death, only the Force, in what he believed would be his last words. Cade was unable to cope, however, and used the Force to revive his Master, skirting very close to the dark side in doing so. The shuttle took off just as Sazen regained consciousness, though Kol had been killed. In a fit of rage, Cade expressed his desire to turn back and avenge his father's death. Realizing that his apprentice had almost touched the dark side, Sazen warned him not to leave the ship, telling Cade that fighting the Sith would only further corrupt his connection to the Force. Cade did not listen, however, and when the Jedi shuttle came under attack from Imperial fighters, he left the ship, flying an X-83 TwinTail starfighter against the Sith fighters. Sazen contacted him via comlink, but Cade disregarded his warnings and continued to fight. Eventually he was shot down, and his presence in the Force could no longer be felt, though Sazen knew Cade had not perished; their bond had been strengthened after Cade brought him back from the brink of death, and he knew that he would have felt if Cade had died. The shuttle left Ossus, and Sazen and Vao went into hiding. Sazen and Vao spent several years in hiding, and though he attempted to locate Cade, Sazen could find no trace of his former apprentice. Kol's death had affected him greatly, and he was left extremely grief-stricken, but he eventually overcame this. Sazen chose not to make use of a prosthetic arm, training himself to wield his lightsaber with his left hand instead.Star Wars: Legacy (2006) 0½ He took Vao as his apprentice, completing his training until he pronounced the Twi'lek to be a Jedi Knight, though the two eventually parted ways. In 137 ABY, seven years after Cade Skywalker went missing, Sazen called a meeting on the planet Daluuj with three other Jedi: Vao, Ahn Rasi Tuum, and another. It was a risk to call such a convocation, as the Jedi had been persecuted by Sith, Imperials, and bounty hunters for several years, and the others were very reluctant to come out of hiding. Eventually, though, Sazen rendezvoused with his fellow Jedi on Daluuj. thumb|left|220px|Sazen and Vao fight off Sith on Daluuj. Rasi Tuum was skeptical of the whole idea, feeling that it was far too dangerous for Jedi to group together. Sazen told them of his intentions: to find Skywalker, and use him as a focal point in rebuilding the Jedi Order. He knew that the Jedi would not triumph over the Sith if they remained divided and disorganized, and believed that only someone from the Skywalker family&mdash;who had a lineage of great Jedi, including Luke Skywalker, who had reestablished the Order after Palpatine's Great Jedi Purge&mdash;could unite the Jedi and rally them together. The others' skepticism did not subside; Rasi Tuum believed that Skywalker had to be dead, and Vao knew that they would not find him if he did not want to be found. Their discussion was interrupted by the arrival of half a dozen Sith, who had somehow learned of the meeting and had arrived to slay the Jedi. They took Rasi Tuum by surprise, killing him, as well as the fourth Jedi. Sazen and Vao were able to stop them, though, and after a lengthy duel they managed to kill each of their attackers. Vao decided to join Sazen and assist him in his vision for the Order, and the two departed Daluuj before any more saboteurs could arrive. Several days after their reunion, Vao and Sazen traveled to the planet Vendaxa. Vao's sister, Astraal Vao, had contacted him, pleading for him to protect her and Princess Marasiah Fel from a Sith named Darth Talon. Astraal and Fel were taken to Vendaxa by a group of bounty hunters in the Mynock, but had come under attack from a wild acklay. Upon their arrival at the world, the two Jedi rescued Astraal from the beast, eventually slaying it. The two Vaos comforted each other while Marasiah Fel arranged payment with the bounty hunters; during the conversation, Sazen overheard Cade's name being spoken, and, upon taking a closer look, identified one of the hunters as Cade Skywalker. He queried the young man, though Cade's response was hostile; he had renounced the Jedi way, and had kept his Force-sensitivity secret from his peers. Sazen did not question him any further.Legacy (2006) 5 Darth Talon, Fel's pursuer, had arrived on Vendaxa shortly after them, and had sabotaged Sazen's ship, destroying it. Desperate to get off-world before Talon caught up with them, Sazen and the others agreed to pay the bounty hunters a fortune if they brought them to Bastion. Talon arrived just moments later, however, bringing with her hordes of local beasts. The two Jedi dueled with Talon while the others sought cover, but Talon proved more than a match for them: she sent Vao sprawling with the Force, and used Force lightning against Sazen. The Zabrak Master was close to death when Marasiah Fel&mdash;capable of using a lightsaber herself&mdash;arrived, distracting the Sith, and freed Sazen of her lightning. Talon was able to fend off Fel, too, and advanced towards the unarmed bounty hunters, including Cade. For the first time in several years, Cade used the Force, sending large pieces of scrap metal and rubble towards her. Talon retreated, and the group returned to the Mynock. thumb|right|240px|Sazen and Cade Skywalker on Vendaxa. The Sith had sabotaged the Mynock as well, and Deliah Blue, the chief mechanic, estimated that it would take her several hours to finish the repairs. Sazen and Vao kept watch outside, using the Force to sense Talon's location. Vao wished to hunt down Talon on Vendaxa, though Sazen persuaded him to bide his time and wait for the Sith to attack. While they waited for Blue to repair the ship, Sazen was presented with the opportunity to speak with Cade alone for the first time since their arrival on Vendaxa. He told Cade that he knew he had survived, and spoke of his vision of a Skywalker reuniting the Jedi, though his former apprentice refused to listen and stormed off. Sazen saw no sign of Talon for several hours, though he monitored her presence in the Force incessantly. Eventually, two Imperial Knights&mdash;personal bodyguards for Princess Marasiah Fel's father, Roan Fel&mdash;. Talon reemerged, accompanied by Darth Nihl and over a dozen other Sith. Nihl goaded Sazen to attack him, and the two Force-users entered into a vicious duel. Their fight was interrupted by Cade Skywalker, wielding Fel's lightsaber and seeking vengeance for his father's death. Sazen attempted to dissuade Skywalker from fighting with anger and hatred, though the young man ignored him. Eventually, Skywalker and Sazen were the only ones left fighting; the others had fled to the Mynock. Sazen joined them, after Skywalker refused to walk away like he had done on Ossus. On the bounty hunter vessel, Sazen clashed with Antares Draco, one of the Imperial Knights; Draco wanted them to leave immediately so that Princess Fel&mdash;who had been grievous wounded by Talon&mdash;could be treated, while Sazen wanted to go back for Cade. Eventually, though, the Zabrak agreed to stay with Fel and do what he could to treat her injuries while Draco and Vao engaged the Sith again. After several more brief duels, they returned with Skywalker, and the Mynock left for Bastion; however, Fel's condition was rapidly deteriorating. Against Sazen's wishes, Skywalker used his healing power again, saving the Princess's life but coming close to the dark side. Sazen tried to talk to his former apprentice, but Skywalker sent him away. They eventually reached Roan Fel's throne world, Bastion. Fel offered Sazen and Vao safe haven in exchange for their allegiance to his empire, though because Sazen held Fel partially responsible for the massacre of Ossus, they declined the offer. The two Jedi ultimately left with Skywalker in the Mynock, though Sazen's former apprentice only agreed to offer them passage on the condition they did not attempt to recruit him into the ranks of the Jedi Order. They agreed, and were ferried to the Wheel,Legacy (2006) 9 where they parted ways with Skywalker. Sazen knew where the Human was destined, however: Ossus. They covertly followed him to the planet; once there, they rendezvoused with another Jedi Master, the long-lived Whiphid K'Kruhk. They eventually encountered Skywalker sprawling on the floor of the Jedi Praxeum after he had used several doses of the illicit death sticks. K'Kruhk confiscated the drugs, and although he stated that he was not happy to see his fellow Jedi, Skywalker asked them to complete his Jedi training. Sazen agreed, and he, Vao, and K'Kruhk spent several weeks teaching Skywalker in the ways of the Jedi. Vao took Skywalker for most of the physical training, while K'Kruhk and Sazen taught him the more subtle aspects of the Force. After a fortnight of stringent training, Skywalker and Vao encountered Yuuzhan Vong Master Shaper Nei Rin and her two bodyguards in the lower levels of the Praxeum. The warriors and the Jedi clashed, though Sazen and Rin were able to persuade them to stop fighting. The Vong had never left Ossus after returning from their investigation as to why their terraforming project had been sabotaged, though these three were all that were left of them. Rin had a sizable amount of Jedi artifacts, which she wished to hand over to Skywalker. thumb|left|220px|Skywalker attacks Master Sazen. Skywalker did not want the artifacts, however, and stormed off, proclaiming that the Jedi's time was over. Sazen followed him out onto one of the Praxeum's balconies. Skywalker told his Master that he could not feel his father's presence, even close to where they parted ways forever. Sazen, realizing that Skywalker had come to Ossus alone because he wished to commit suicide, confronted him and suggested that Cade was angry with Kol for allowing himself to die. Cade reacted aggressively, launching himself at Sazen and engaging the Zabrak in a fistfight. As they fought, Cade told him that he hadn't come to Ossus to die, but to confront his father's spirit. Kol's voice had been plaguing Cade since his death, yet Cade could not feel his father's presence whatsoever. The younger Skywalker felt that if he had been braver and stronger during the Sith attack on Ossus, he could have saved his father; Sazen replied that he, too, had had similar doubts, but had made himself accept that Kol's death was the will of the Force. Cade continued to fight his Master, until Sazen eventually convinced him that no matter what he had done, Kol would still have died. Sazen, K'Kruhk, and Vao continued Cade's training, teaching him once again how to shut off his emotions and control his anger. During one of his meditation sessions, Cade had a vision of his ancestor, Luke Skywalker, telling him to travel to Krayt's Sith Temple and rescue a Bothan Jedi named Hosk Trey'lis, whom Cade had turned over to the Sith while working as a bounty hunter. Cade departed the next day, despite Sazen's efforts to persuade him to finish his training. thumb|right|150px|Wolf Sazen, Jedi Master. Sazen and his fellow Jedi remained on Ossus, honing their skills and meditating on the Force. While in the ruins of the Jedi Academy on Ossus, Sazen, along with K'Kruhk and Shado, had a vision of Cade turning to the dark side. It caused Sazen great stress, and he worried if Krayt had managed to turn his apprentice over to the Sith.Legacy (2006) 14 Days later, a Sith warship commanded by Darth Stryfe arrived at Ossus, and stormtroopers were sent to the surface to search for any lingering Jedi. Sazen and the others managed to hide their ship and Nei Rin's organic starfighter and hid in the ruins of the Academy, using the Force to watch the Imperials. Liaan Lah, one of the Yuuzhan Vong warriors, expressed his desire to attack the Imperials, but K'Kruhk preached patience. Sazen, however, was anxious to leave and find Cade Skywalker, and stated that the Sith's search had to end soon or they would be unable to turn Cade back.Legacy (2006) 16 Eventually, a group of stormtroopers wandered into the lower levels of the Academy, though Vao was able to use a mind trick to send them away. The Imperials later called off the search, but Darth Stryfe&mdash;the leader of the expedition&mdash;sensed a murmur in the Force, and ordered his gunners to open fire on the Academy, further damaging the building, with Sazen, K'Kruhk, Vao, and the Yuuzhan Vong inside. thumb|left|275px|Wolf Sazen, Drok, and Sayar Dun'La at the Hidden Temple. The five sentients managed to make their way to the lower floors of the Academy, though the building was crippled by the attack. Master K'Kruhk was able to use the Force to keep the falling debris from killing Sazen and his companions, until the Imperials left and they could escape. K'Kruhk was badly injured in the process; they did not have enough bacta to heal him, and Nei Rin, an accomplished healer, was also unable to cure him. The ancient Whiphid eventually managed to tell them the location of a Hidden Jedi Temple, a secret haven for any fugitive Jedi. They reached the Temple, where dozens of other Jedi had sought protection from the Sith. K'Kruhk was healed, and after several weeks Cade and his shipmates along with the Imperial Princess Marasiah Fel and her escort of Imperial Knights arrived, hoping to persuade the Jedi High Council to assist him in his hunt for Darth Krayt. Wolf was troubled that Cade suggested assassinating Darth Krayt, however he was equally troubled that Krayt now knew of Cade's healing ability.Legacy (2006) 25 Shado believed that Cade's Sith training had made him dangerous to the Jedi as well as himself, and confronted Cade to prove that he could no longer choose between Light and Dark. Cade defeated his friend and began to use the Dark side against him, however he stopped before killing him to prove that he was still under control. When the two returned to the Temple, Wolf revealed that he had sensed the confrontation. He implored Cade not to use his Dark Side techniques again, but Cade refused saying that both sides of the Force were just tools for him. Wolf began to fear even more for his troubled old apprentice. The Jedi Council refused Cade's assassination plot, but Cade decided to go through with it by himself. Marasiah Fel agreed and sent the Imperial Knights with him. Shado Vao also went with Cade to make sure he didn't fall to the Dark Side. thumb|right|200px|Sazen on Wayland. As the Jedi joined the coalition against the Sith-led Empire, Shado Vao informed Sazen that the Council wanted him to be apart of the envoy of Jedi that met with the Imperial Knights on Agamar. Sazen told Vao he had a vision of Cade leading him to the planet Wayland and that he had to be there. Sazen also reluctantly accepted a prosthetic replacement as his missing arm was distinctive enough to impede undercover work. Sazen eventually made it to Wayland and met up with Jariah Syn and Fionah Ti. Jariah was surprised to see Sazen, who explained to the two that he came looking for Cade. The three then went further to Darth Maladi's laboratory. When Darth Maladi realized there were intruders she sent her Yuuzhan Vong assistant, Zenoc Quah, to confront the trio. Sazen fought off Zenoc Quah's lethal creations, while Jariah Syn killed Zenoc Quah. The three then found Cade trying to heal Deliah Blue. While Cade insisted that the dark side was stronger, Sazen told him to tap into the light side to save Blue. Cade told everyone else to leave before the base blew up while he continued to heal Blue. Cade tapped into the light side and his love for Blue, which caused Maladi's weapon to die, freeing her. Cade carried Blue out of the destroyed lab, and told Sazen that he had been right. Sazen told his former Padawan to return to the Jedi, however Cade told his former Master that he was not a Jedi but the Sith's worst nightmare. thumb|left|200px|Wolf and Cade on Daluuj After Skywalker declared war on the One Sith, Sazen agreed to help him in the hope that his former apprentice could return to the Jedi. When it was revealed that Sith scientist Vul Isen was responsible for the poisoning of Dac, Skywalker set out to kill him. Acting on intelligence provided by Naxy Screeger, the small team composed of Skywalker, Sazen, Jariah and Deliah headed to Daluuj where Isen had set up a base. There, Skywalker and Sazen held off a horde of Sith Lords while Syn and Blue set up explosives in the base. It turned out Naxy's intelligence was wrong and Isen had left Daluuj for Hutt Space. Within Hutt Space, Queen Jool summoned Skywalker to a meeting of the Hutt leaders to discuss the recent attack against the Anjiliac Clan. After proving himself to the Hutt leaders, Vedo Anjiliac Atirue hired Skywalker to assassinate Isen. The Hutts had leaked the location of Admiral Gar Stazi's base on Utapau to the Sith as they knew that they would send Isen to dispose of him. The team made its way to Utapau where Syn and Blue approached Stazi by claiming that they wanted to sell him weapons. Skywalker and Sazen went off to meet Vedo's agent, Pobos, who knew where Isen was. Before he could tell them, he was killed by assassins sent by Isen. After getting the location from a dying Pobos, Skywalker wanted to press on but Sazen claimed that they had to protect Admiral Stazi. Skywalker disagreed that would mean revealing their presence to Isen. Sazen said that Stazi and his forces had been fighting the Sith for seven years and that without them, the resistance would fall apart. He told Skywalker that if he didn't warn Stazi then he would. Skywalker complied and ordered Syn and Blue to watch over Stazi and let no one approach him.Legacy (2006) 49 thumb|right|200px|Darth Azard dies at the hands of Wolf Sazen.After the two successfully stopped Isen's assassin from killing Stazi, Skywalker and Sazen attacked the laboratory where Isen and Sith Lord Darth Azard were hiding. While Skywalker engaged Isen, Sazen dueled Azard. After a long duel where the two were evenly matched, Azard sensed Darth Krayt's return in the Force. Using this distraction, Sazen killed Azard while Isen was killed by Skywalker who also prevented the spores from being released in Utapau, saving the planet.Legacy (2006) 50 Cade later told his master that he had sensed Darth Krayt alive in the Force. Cade also revealed to Sazen that in his dreams and meditations, he would become Krayt's tool and kill Wolf. Wolf told Cade to purge the fear from his heart, and take peace from what he could not know. Wolf contacted the Jedi Council to inform them of Krayt being alive. The Council responded by saying that no other Jedi had sensed what Cade claimed to sense, but they would look into it for Master Sazen despite Skywalker's reputation. When Cade inquired to Wolf about his "reputation", Wolf responded by telling Cade that the Council still believed him to be more Sith than Jedi. Wolf told Cade that in the past year he had used both the Light and the Dark sides of the Force, and that he was now more drawn to the same darkness where the Sith abide.Legacy — War 1 Wolf accompanied his former Padawan during the Bombing of Falleen. The two boarded the Star Destroyer Darklight and after defeating Stormtroopers and Sith they tossed explosives into the cruiser's reactor core which would set off a chain reaction, destroying the ship. The two escaped on predators and watched as the Darklight blew up. thumb|left|250px|Wolf and Shado fight in defense of the Hidden Temple. Following the recovery of the captured Antares Draco from Darth Talon on the Wheel, the Jedi learned the Sith were launching a massive, all-out assault on the Hidden Temple. In discussion of what to do, Cade was open to letting the Sith come. Taivas' magnetic field and terrain would prevent orbital bombardment, forcing a ground assault. This would leave the space fleet vulnerable to reinforcements from the Fel Empire and Galactic Alliance Remnant. When T'ra Saa suggested evacuating the younglings, Cade stated that they and any safe location they would head to would be even more vulnerable. Sazen questioned Cade for taking risks, but his former Padawan stated that risks and sacrifices were necessary for victory. With everyone in agreement, the battle soon commenced.Legacy — War 3 During the battle, Sazen assisted alongside Cade, Vao, Nat Skywalker, Drok, Te Corso, Sayar Dun'La, and several Imperial Knights in defending T'ra Saa, who had engrained herself within the Council chambers and begun Battle meditation. The group dispatched many of the stormtroopers and lesser Sith with ease until a number of Darth Krayt's specially bred Sith troopers arrived. As Sith reinforcements continued to pour in, Sazen, Vao, and the Imperial Knights decided it was time to retreat. All others who stayed behind except Cade were killed shortly afterwards, but as they died, Nat and Saa were able to focus a beam of energy skywards, leaving an opening for Sazen and everyone else to escape.Legacy — War 4 thumb|250px|Wolf Sazen and Darth Stryfe strike each other down. Following their disastrous defeat on Taivas, the Jedi, Imperial, and Alliance forces fled to Bastion. There it was decided to launch an attack on the now vulnerable Coruscant in hope of killing Darth Krayt. It was decided that a small strike team infiltrate the capital and disable the planet's orbital defenses. Sazen accompanied Cade, Vao, Rasi Tuum, Morrigan Corde, and the Imperial Knights to Coruscant's defense systems, and successfully disabled the computers there as the Allied fleet emerged from hyperspace. The group then decided to head for the Temple of the Sith, utilizing the underground hidden passageways still existing from when it was the New Jedi Temple. Much to Shado's dismay, however, the secret tunnels were not so secret. The group was confronted by Darth Talon, Darth Stryfe, and numerous other Sith. As Vao, Tuum, and the Imperial Knights engaged the Sith minions, Cade engaged Talon, easily defeating her. Glancing upwards, Cade saw his former Master confront Stryfe. The two fought briefly before the Zabrak Jedi Master leaped upwards. Sazen cleaved his lightsaber into the Hand's abdomen, but took a strike just the same. As Stryfe's corpse fell to the floor, Wolf Sazen became one with the Force, his body vanishing as his robes and weapon hit the ground. Cade screamed in fury at the loss of his friend and master, but Shado reminded him there was nothing he could do. Cade, agreeing, sprinted off to find Krayt while his remaining friends held off the Sith. thumb|right|300px|Wolf Sazen becomes one with the Force. Sazen was a great believer in the Living Force and trusted the Force to direct his path in life. After Cade Skywalker used his mysterious power to revive him, Sazen expressed his belief that it may not have been the best course of action; he felt that no one should attempt to defy the will of the Living Force. He put great store in any visions or whispers he saw or heard in the Force, and unlike Shado Vao and many other Jedi, he always treated such visions as fact and did what he could to act on them. Sazen was a determined being, and he did his utmost to follow what he believed was right. Although the odds were stacked against Cade's being alive, and although his peers believed him dead, Sazen maintained his belief that his apprentice had survived on Ossus, trusting that the Force would have revealed Cade's death to him. Sazen was loyal to the Jedi Order, and, while most others sought to hide and avoid the Sith's persecution, he sought to find a leader to rally the Jedi around and to rebuild the Order. Upon his death, Wolf Sazen's body dissipated into the Force, exhibiting the great and deep connection he had with it. He was quite contemplative, spending much of his time meditating and thinking about the future. He was a skilled warrior who faced and defeated many Sith, but he retained a calm head in battle, even when facing Darth Stryfe to their mutual end. He was a talented linguist, fluent in Basic, Huttese, Ryl and Zabraki.Legacy Era Campaign Guide Wolf Sazen was a proficient lightsaber duelist, slaying many Sith on both Vendaxa and Ossus. For a time, he used a prosthetic, improving his skill with a blade, including slaying Darth Azard. However, his skill was not enough to defeat Nihl both times they fought. By the end of the war his skill with a blade did match the ferocity of Darth Stryfe, with both killing each other. He was also able to hold his own in a fistfight with Cade Skywalker, even with just one arm, and was reasonably proficient in the use of simple weapons in addition to his lightsaber. Sazen was a master of Form V, specializing in the Shien variant. In almost all of his lightsaber duels, Sazen utilized the reverse grip. Sazen was also a master of blast deflection and frequently defeated multiple adversaries at once, further showcasing his total mastery of the Shien style. After losing his arm, Sazen relied more on acrobatic evasions due to lacking the leverage for staunch defense. During the brief time he utilized a prosthetic right arm, Sazen’s style was notably more grounded and staunch in defense. Sazen was adept in the use of Force sense, able to track the presence of even the elusive Darth Talon at a distance. He possessed strong foresight, and received visions on numerous occasions, often of his student Cade, and confident that if something happened to Skywalker he would sense it. Wolf Sazen was capable of using telekinesis. thumb|right|150px|Wolf, with Shado Vao and [[Konrad Rus on the cover of Legacy (2006) 5.]] Wolf Sazen was created by John Ostrander for the Star Wars: Legacy series of comics, with most of his appearances being illustrated by Jan Duursema. He was first mentioned in Star Wars: Legacy (2006) 0, an introductory issue to the series, before appearing in the Broken, Ghosts, and Claws of the Dragon story arcs. In the fourth issue of Claws of the Dragon, the building where Sazen and his fellow Jedi were staying in was destroyed by Darth Stryfe, though his fate was not revealed, and he was not mentioned for several issues afterward. Eventually, over six months and seven issues later, Legacy (2006) 25 established that he had survived. Sazen subsequently made an appearance in The Hidden Temple, Part 2, and was given an entry in Wizards of the Coast's Legacy Era Campaign Guide. *Legacy (2006) 1 *Legacy (2006) 8 *Legacy (2006) 2 *Legacy (2006) 3 *Legacy (2006) 5 *Legacy (2006) 6 *Legacy (2006) 7 *Legacy (2006) 9 *Legacy (2006) 11 *Legacy (2006) 12 *Legacy (2006) 14 *Legacy (2006) 16 *Legacy (2006) 17 *Legacy (2006) 18 *Legacy (2006) 25 *Legacy (2006) 26 *Legacy (2006) 29 *Legacy (2006) 39 *Legacy (2006) 43 *Legacy (2006) 45 *Legacy (2006) 46 *Legacy (2006) 48 *Legacy (2006) 49 *Legacy (2006) 50 *Legacy — War 1 *Legacy — War 2 *Legacy — War 4 *Legacy — War 5 }} *Star Wars: Legacy (2006) 0 *Star Wars: Panel to Panel Volume 2: Expanding the Universe *Star Wars: The Ultimate Visual Guide: Special Edition *Jedi vs. Sith: The Essential Guide to the Force *Star Wars: Legacy (2006) 0½ *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia *Legacy Era Campaign Guide *Star Wars: The Ultimate Visual Guide: Updated and Expanded Category:Cyborgs with prosthetics Category:Individuals with he/him pronouns Category:Individuals with lost limbs Category:Jedi Masters of the New Jedi Order Category:Males Category:Ossus residents Category:Revived individuals Category:Zabrak