80283
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Attatag_Gosem
Attatag Gosem
7670

Attatag Gosem was a Gotal who won the Big Game, a gladiatorial event on The Wheel space station, for three consecutive years around 130 ABY. The competition was abolished when The Wheel changed ownership, and he turned to a life of crime, working as a spy and information broker. Rumors stated that he worked with the One Sith. Gosem became the newest administrator of The Wheel around 138 ABY after the disappearance of the previous one, Pol Temm, and re-instituted the Big Game. Rules were rarely enforced under his leadership, and the station fell into a squalid and rusty state. Attatag Gosem was a Gotal who lived around the year 130 ABY. states that Gosem was competing in The Wheel's Big Game competition around the time of the rise of Darth Krayt's Galactic Empire, which is dated to 130 ABY by Legacy (2006) 1. He competed in and won the Big Game&mdash;a brutal gladiatorial event that took place on The Wheel, a popular space station in the Besh Gorgon system&mdash;for three consecutive years. However, the station passed into the hands of a new administrator, Pol Temm, around 130 ABY, and the Big Game was abolished. Gosem turned to a life of crime and became a known spy and information broker. He was rumored to work with the One Sith. Around 138 ABY, Temm disappeared after trying to enforce his "no weapons" policy with a Defender-class Star Destroyer against a group of Mandalorian Supremacists, and Gosem took his place, becoming The Wheel's twelfth administrator. His suspected Sith affiliations caused some to be suspicious of his return, but when he revoked the ban on the Big Game, many were pleased. Gosem largely did away with imposing rules aboard The Wheel, and the station accordingly fell into a decrepit state of squalor and rust. Attatag Gosem was a beefy individual who won the Big Game three years running. His return to The Wheel led to both suspicion and praise, respectively due to his rumored allegiance to the Sith and his re-institution of the the Big Game. Gosem carried a blaster pistol, wore dark armor, and sported a microphone headset. . Retrieved on August 6, 2011.}} Attatag Gosem was created by John Ostrander and Jan Duursema for the comic series Star Wars: Legacy. A picture drawn by Dan Parsons, and a short informative blurb about him appeared in the June 2006 reference book Star Wars: Legacy (2006) 0, which introduced many of the series' primary characters and other elements. Everything that was showcased in Legacy 0 went on to play a role in the series, save for Gosem, who failed to appear in a single issue of Legacy during its fifty-issue run. Ostrander later stated that he and Duursema had had storylines in mind for the character, but that there had ultimately been no room to fit them in to existing stories which already featured Legacy large ensemble cast.. Retrieved on August 6, 2011. Gosem was finally referenced in the third issue of Legacy followup miniseries, Star Wars: Legacy—War, and was profiled in the 2013 StarWars.com blog article "Viva Space Vegas! The History of the Marvelous Wheel, Part 2," written by Abel G. Peña and Rich Handley. *Legacy — War 3 *Star Wars: Legacy (2006) 0 Category:Business owners and executives Category:Gotals Category:Individuals of unspecified gender Category:Individuals with he/him pronouns Category:Information brokers Category:Personnel of Darth Krayt's Galactic Empire Category:Spies Category:The Wheel residents