80479
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/212_BBY
212 BBY
6175

|conflict= |chancellor= |chief= |head= |emperor= |events=Bosbit Matarcher's Delemedian starhopper's relativistic shield malfunctions during a hyperspace jump, sending Matarcher 190 years into the future |eras=Rise of the Empire era }} 212 before the Battle of Yavin (BBY) was a year during the Great Peace of the Republic era. Beginning nearly 800 years previously, this time period marked widespread exploration into the Outer Rim by the Galactic Republic and the opening of the Deep Core. In 212 BBY, Delemede&ndash;native Bosbit Matarcher attempted to make a hyperspace jump in a recently bought Delemedian starhopper. However, Matarcher's starship had a faulty relativistic shield&mdash;which guarded against the strange bends in time and space associated with hyperspace travel&mdash;and during the jump, Matarcher was transported 190 years into the future. In 1000 BBY, the New Sith Wars between the Galactic Republic and the Brotherhood of Darkness came to an end. The Supreme Chancellor at the time, Tarsus Valorum, reorganized the Senate through the Ruusan Reformations,The Essential Atlas and the Jedi Order became a branch of the Republic Judicial Department.The New Essential Chronology By the year 212 BBY, the Great Peace of the Republic era&mdash;the period of time that followed the Ruusan Reformation&mdash;was nearly eight hundred years in the making. The Republic continued its expansion into the Deep Core and previously uncharted Wild Space areas that later became part of the Outer Rim Territories. Around 212 BBY, Bosbit Matarcher, a thirty-five standard year old Human male from the then&ndash;shoddy planet of Delemede, bought a Delemedian starhopper. Thinking he had gotten a good deal for the starship, Matarcher boarded his starhopper and left Delemede, hoping to make a quick jump outsystem. However, when Matarcher engaged his vessel's hyperdrive, the ship's relativistic shield, which protected the ship from the irregular bends in time and space associated with hyperspace travel, malfunctioned. Following 212 BBY, the Republic continued its expansion, and the Great Peace of the Republic lasted for over 150 years. Meanwhile, when Matarcher emerged from hyperspace, he discovered that much had changed for the galaxy. Although Matarcher experienced only a two hour journey, for the rest of the galaxy, 190 years had passed, putting Matarcher in the year 22 BBY, the last year of the Great Peace of the Republic era. Matarcher, now a 225 standard year old man, gained brief notoriety for the extremely unusual malfunction that sent him 190 years into the future. Matarcher received a minor interview by the HoloNet News, during which Matarcher stated he would be returning to Delemede, but this time, he would be flying transit. Matarcher also said he was happy the malfunction had occurred; when he had left Delemede in 212 BBY, the planet was in a state in disrepair, but in 22 BBY, Delemede was a thriving. *Circa 212 BBY, Bosbit Matarcher unintentionally time travels 190 years into the future, due to faulty relativistic shielding on his recently bought starship. 212 BBY was first indirectly mentioned in the in-universe HoloNet News Vol. 531 48 article, "225-year Old Man's Secret? Time Dilation." In the article, it is stated that Matarcher was thirty&ndash;five standard years old, and upon time traveling, was 225 standard years old, signifying that Matarcher traveled 190 years through time. Since the article is set in the year 22 BBY, it can then be assumed that Matarcher's journey began around the year 212 BBY. 212 BBY was again indirectly mentioned in Bosbit Matarcher's entry in The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia. ---- Category:Years in the Great Peace of the Republic era