80922
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Mayth_Duvel
Mayth Duvel
3810

Mayth Duvel was a Black Sun sublieutenant during the Galactic Civil War. He was among the few loyal underlings of Dark Prince Xizor, Underlord of Black Sun, who could claim the privilege to visit Xizor within his personal sanctum on the planet Coruscant. Duvel met with Xizor in 3.5 ABY while bearing a petition on behalf of the criminal Nezriti Organization, which requested an alliance with Black Sun. Mayth Duvel was a sublieutenant in the Black Sun crime syndicate during the Galactic Civil War. A loyal underling of Black Sun's leader, Dark Prince Xizor&mdash;or as loyal as fear could make him&mdash;Duvel numbered among the select few of Xizor's minions who had the right to visit the Dark Prince within his personal sanctum on the planet Coruscant. In 3.5 ABY,The New Essential Chronology dates the events of the Shadows of the Empire novel to 3.5 ABY. some months after the Battle of Hoth, Duvel entered Xizor's sanctum with a petition from the Nezriti Organization. Bowing low before his master, Duvel explained that the rival criminal group sought an alliance with Black Sun and presented Xizor with a small package, which contained a bloodred Tumanian pressure-ruby. By gifting the rare gemstone, which easily cost several million credits, the Nezriti hoped to curry Xizor's favor, but the Dark Prince merely tossed the token onto his desk, unconcerned if it were to later fall in with the garbage. Xizor then dismissed Duvel, instructing him to inform the Nezriti that Black Sun would consider their offer. Mayth Duvel first appeared in the 1996 novel Shadows of the Empire, written by Steve Perry. *Star Wars: Shadows of the Empire novel *Star Wars Encyclopedia *A Guide to the Star Wars Universe, Third Edition, Revised and Expanded *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Black Sun members Category:Individuals of unspecified gender Category:Individuals of unspecified species Category:Individuals with he/him pronouns