81613
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Darth_Wyyrlok_(II)
Darth Wyyrlok (II)
9140

Darth Wyyrlok was a female Chagrian who served the Sith Lord Darth Krayt as a Sith Master. She became Krayt's closest advisor sometime after 41 ABY, following in the footsteps of her father, who had also been called Darth Wyyrlok. She additionally acted as Krayt's voice and the Regent of his Sith order while he rested in stasis. Wyyrlok eventually mothered a son, who assumed her name and duties before 130 ABY. The female Chagrian Darth Wyyrlok served the Sith Lord Darth Krayt as a Sith Master of his One Sith order.Star Wars: Legacy (2006) 0½ Her father was also called Darth Wyyrlok and was Krayt's top lieutenant and closest advisor as early as 41 ABY.Crosscurrent, in which Darth Wyyrlok is Darth Krayt's closest advisor, is set in 41 ABY according to The Essential Reader's Companion. His duties were eventually passed down to his daughter, who became Krayt's most trusted advisor and acted as the guardian of the One Sith while her Master rested in stasis.Legacy (2006) 31 The Sith remained hidden on the planet Korriban for a century, and as Krayt's order and his plans to conquer the galaxy developed and grew, he often retired to stasis for years at a time.Legacy (2006) 18 Like her father before her, Wyyrlok became Krayt's voice and the regent of the One Sith during these periods.Legacy (2006) 34 She had a son at some point, and after she passed away he assumed her name and responsibilities. The third Darth Wyyrlok was serving Darth Krayt by 130 ABY when Krayt seized control of the galaxy.Legacy (2006) 1 The Sith had red skin with black tattoos. She was loyal to Darth Krayt and waited for his commands. Darth Wyyrlok was a Sith Master of the One Sith, an organization of Force-users deeply immersed in the dark side of the Force. Darth Krayt placed great faith in her ability to lead the Sith in his absence, appointing her as his voice and the regent of the order while he rested in stasis. Darth Wyyrlok wore a black armor with metallic plates. }} Darth Wyyrlok was created by John Ostrander and Jan Duursema, the authors of the comic series Star Wars: Legacy and Star Wars: Legacy — War. She was first indirectly mentioned in the preview comic Star Wars: Legacy (2006) 0, published on June 7, 2006, which noted that her son was the third Sith to take the name Darth Wyyrlok. She first appeared in a flashback scene in the first issue of Legacy followup miniseries, Star Wars: Legacy—War, illustrated by Jan Duursema and published on December 15, 2010. While designing the character's look, Duursema consulted with fellow artist Douglas Wheatley, who was also penciling female Chagrian characters for the comic series Star Wars: Dark Times. *Legacy (2006) 14 *Legacy (2006) 30 *Legacy (2006) 31 *Legacy (2006) 34 *Legacy — War 1 *Star Wars: Legacy (2006) 0 *Star Wars: Legacy (2006) 0½ *Legacy Era Campaign Guide Category:Chagrians Category:Darths Category:Females Category:Individuals with she/her pronouns Category:Sith Masters Category:Sith of the One Sith