82176
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Juggernaut_war_droid
Juggernaut war droid
5988

|firstmade= |retired= }} The Juggernaut war droid was a battle droid constructed by Duwani Mechanical Products and designed specifically for use by the Republic rocket-jumper corps, serving as a combat unit to complement their existing R-EAU Linemaster droids that the Juggernauts were designed off of. thumb|left|Juggernaut war droid and [[K-X12 probe droid exchange fire.]] The juggernaut operated in a bipedal configuration, and had two alternate methods of propulsion. It could use twin outrigger jets to propel itself into the air for bursts up to one minute, or the jets could convert into intake propellers for underwater use. Unfortunately, the droids propellers would often jam, sinking the droid. The juggernaut was armed with a wide-beam sonic stunner and a high powered shatter beam, but its primary weapon was the pulse-wave rifle. They were first commissioned in 4800 BBY by Supreme Chancellor Vocatara, and they quickly saw service in the Gank Massacres. During the Great Sith War, Juggernaut war droids provided soldiers of the Galactic Republic with much-needed supplies, since thanks to the versatility of their jet packs they were able to reach Republic personnel well behind enemy lines. During the Great Droid Revolution, however, they were used by HK-01, shredding the Republic rocket-jumpers in an air battle over Monument Plaza. Most of the droids were quickly decommissioned after HK-01 was deactivated. During the Jedi Civil War, Juggernaut war droids were the subject of experimentation by Czerka scientist Joni Ree on behalf of the Sith Empire at the Czerka 431 research facility. Ree, opposed to the Sith, leaked the facility's location to the Galactic Republic and planned to use the Juggernauts to escape during a Republic attack. Ilum, an Iron Knight, and some of her twelve children lived inside the bodies of Juggernaut war droids. Arden Lyn's cybernetic arm came from Juggernaut droids. The design of the Juggernaut war droid was originally intended to be used for the B2 super battle droid. *The New Essential Guide to Droids *Knights of the Old Republic Campaign Guide *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia *Jedi Academy Training Manual *The Essential Guide to Warfare Category:Battle droid models Category:Droid models of the Galactic Republic Category:Duwani Mechanical Products products