82319
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Dab_Hantaq
Dab Hantaq
4686

Dab Hantaq was a male Human from Coruscant. He worked as a documentarian, and later became an Alliance Marshal assigned as a Jedi supervisor. During the second year of the Yuuzhan Vong War at the age of twelve, he was made to look like Anakin Solo by the treacherous New Republic Senator Viqi Shesh in an attempt to confuse Leia and Han Solo and kidnap Ben Skywalker from them. In return for this masquerade, during which Dab went by the name of "Tarc Kether," Shesh promised a safe transport for his mother and sisters off Coruscant. However, the plan failed. After the Battle of Coruscant, Dab, along with other Coruscanti refugees, ended up on Hapes, where he attended Anakin Solo's funeral. He was later taken on by Wolam Tser and Tam Elgrin as a holocam operator. Sixteen years later, in 43 ABY, Dab was assigned by the Galactic Alliance as a Jedi supervisor to watch Jedi Knight Jaina Solo on her missions. This was an annoyance for her as his appearance served as a reminder of Anakin Solo. Dab also confided in Jaina that he had been enamored with Tahiri Veila since he first met her during the Yuuzhan Vong War. Solo warned the young man to stay away from Veila, even though he had a crush on her. Later, in 44 ABY, Eramuth Bwua'tu contacted Hantaq to make an appearance in the Ninth Hall of Justice in the Galactic Justice Center on Coruscant during Veila's trial, as he hoped that her reaction to seeing Hantaq would make the jury sympathetic to her plight. Veila was shocked and deeply upset by this tactic, although the move achieved what Bwua'tu had hoped it would achieve, as the jury empathized more with Veila.Fate of the Jedi: Allies *The New Jedi Order: Star by Star *The New Jedi Order: Dark Journey *The New Jedi Order: Enemy Lines I: Rebel Dream *The New Jedi Order: Enemy Lines II: Rebel Stand *The New Jedi Order: The Unifying Force *Fate of the Jedi: Outcast *Fate of the Jedi: Omen *Fate of the Jedi: Allies *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Coruscanti Category:Humans Category:Jedi supervisors Category:Males Category:New Republic individuals