82580
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Dax_Gazaway
Dax Gazaway
3983

Dax Gazaway was a Podracing announcer who covered many races on the Outer Rim prior to the Clone Wars during the year 24 BBY. Dax's hometown was Mos Espa, a city located on the Outer Rim planet of Tatooine. He was said to know every pilot in the circuits he broadcast. Dax Gazaway was born in the city of Mos Espa, located on the Outer Rim planet of Tatooine. A bustling town, Mos Espa was known for the annual Boonta Eve Classic Podrace, which attracted fans from across the galaxy. By 24 BBY, Gazaway had picked up the profession of Podrace broadcaster and in-race commentator. Gazaway followed the 24 BBY Podracing season, which saw a number of seasoned professionals return to the track alongside a number of newcomers. The season was most notable for the return of the Dug pilot Sebulba, entering the season with a massive Collor Pondrat Plug-G Gargantua Split-X Podracer, and his old nemesis, Anakin Skywalker, a former slave who was by now a Jedi in training. Gazaway followed the competition across the various circuits and courses, broadcasting the races. Gazaway would usually begin the race, previewing some of the course's features before sending the pilots off. He would then partake in color commentary, remarking on the behavior of certain pilots on the track, as well riffing crashes with numerous metaphors. Despite his occasionally callous remarks, he was said to have had a working relationship with every pilot in the tournament. At the season's end, Gazaway traveled to the palace of Jabba the Hutt to announce the season's victor. Dax Gazaway first appeared as the race commentator in the 2002 video game Star Wars: Racer Revenge and was voiced by Tom Kane. Gazaway shares his name with former LucasArts level designer Dax Gazaway. During development of Star Wars: Racer Revenge, a name was needed for the Podracing announcer, and Gazaway allowed his to be used. *Star Wars: Obi-Wan *Star Wars: Racer Revenge *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Individuals of unspecified species Category:Males Category:Tatooinians