82852
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Dustrose
Dustrose
4591

*Jedi Order *Confederacy of Independent Systems **Dark Acolytes *Jensaarai |masters= |apprentices= }} Dustrose was the name given to the female Dark Acolyte serving alongside Nikkos Tyris by Jedi Knight Ylenic It'kla during the Clone Wars. Formerly a Jedi Knight, Dustrose fell to the dark side of the Force after a failed mission to Baltizaar and eventually joined the Confederacy of Independent Systems after founding the Jensaarai. Discovered at an early age to be Force-sensitive, Dustrose was trained at the Jedi Order's largest academy, the Coruscant Jedi Temple Ascending to the rank of Jedi Knight, Dustrose was dispatched to Baltizaar with a task force of other Knights assigned to wipe out the dark side cult known as the Bando Gora. However, the Jedi were outmatched by the dark-siders and most were slain; the Jedi High Council believed Dustrose to be among the casualties. However, she survived and joined fellow survivor Nikkos Tyris in falling to the dark side and traveling with the Anzati Jedi's group to Susevfi. On Susevfi, Tyris led his followers down the path to the dark side, studying an ancient ancient Sith manuscript to learn their dark techniques. The cult, which Tyris dubbed the Jensaarai, would grow into a large enough threat to cause the Jedi High Council and the secret Dark Lords of the Sith concern. As the Clone Wars erupted between the Republic and the Confederacy of Independent Systems in 22 BBY, Dustrose continued to stay loyal to Tyris. The group was approached by Count Dooku, leader of the Confederacy and the alter ego of Sith Lord Darth Tyranus. Dooku gifted Tyris with a Sith holocron favored by former Anzati Jedi Volfe Karkko and convinced the cult leader to join the Separatist war effort. Granting the Jensaarai members the title of Dark Acolytes within the ranks of the Separatist Droid Army, Dustrose was stationed with Tyris on Susevfi during the final days of the war. A month before the war would end, the Jedi Order dispatched the Knights Nejaa Halcyon, Ylenic It'kla, and Desertwind to remove the Jensaarai leadership. Attacking their fortress on Susevfi, the Jedi engaged Tyris, Dustrose, and another loyal follower, in an attempt to remove the Jensaari from the war. Over the course of the fighting, all three Jensaarai fell, with Jedi It'kla delivering the fatal blow to Dustrose. *I, Jedi *Power of the Jedi Sourcebook Category:Dark Acolytes Category:Fallen Jedi Category:Females Category:Individuals of unspecified species Category:Jensaarai Category:Post-Ruusan Jedi Knights