82836
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Skirmish_on_Kabray
Skirmish on Kabray
5896

The Battle of Kabray was a skirmish in the Nagai invasion of 4 ABY. After the Battle of Endor and the formation of the Alliance of Free Planets, certain members began to grumble about the manner in which the leadership of the Alliance was run, claiming it was too oppressive. The leaders of the discontent parties gathered on Kabray to share their concerns with one another. Most attending the gathering were non-military members of the Alliance, and had contributed little to the Rebellion's fight against the Empire. Admiral Gial Ackbar dispatched Princess Leia and Han Solo, along with four Zeltrons as an escort, to the gathering to listen to their concerns and show them the leadership was not aloof, not deaf to their concerns. The Nagai leadership targeted this gathering as an opportunity to disrupt the Alliance's diplomatic base and dispatched 13 Nagai warriors, led by Knife, to round up the non-combatants. The Nagai arrived before the Alliance reps and easily captured the party of diplomats. When Leia and Han finally arrived they walked right into a trap and were captured without a fight. The 6 captives were disarmed and sealed with a room. While Han and Leia tried to formulate a plan involving Leia pretending to faint, the Zeltron boys set their own trap. They hoisted Jahn up to the ceiling where he wedged himself in the corner above the door. When a Nagai guard entered the room, he jumped on him, knocking him to the ground. The remaining Zeltrons rushed out of the cell and attacked the remaining Nagai in a fierce brawl. Han and Leia appropriated blasters from downed Nagai and joined in on the fighting. Eventually, the Nagai were all rounded up and captured by the Alliance team. thumb|right|200px|The dissenting Alliance reps are placated by Han and Leia While a strategic victory for the Nagai was averted, the skirmish on Kabray also had positive repercussions for the Alliance. Those grumbling member worlds realized the importance of a strong military within the Alliance and were placated by the decisive actions of the Alliance leadership. Word of this defeat would make it back to the Nagai leaders on Kinooine, Den Siva and Lumiya, who would later decide to invade Zeltros to neutralize the threat the Zeltrons presented. *Star Wars (1977) 95 *Star Wars (1977) 96 *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia *The Essential Atlas Category:Battles in the Corweillian sector Category:Battles of the Nagai-Tof War