83253
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Turbostorm-class_gunship
Turbostorm-class gunship
5415

The Turbostorm-class gunship was a heavily-armored gunship model produced by Sienar Fleet Systems, considered ancient by the time of the Clone Wars. These gunships could carry at least 24 soldiers in their cargo bay; the door to the bay opened by swinging out, serving as a loading ramp. They were armed with port and starboard KX-4 laser cannon turrets, fore and aft MG3 missiles, and a belly-mounted Sunfire 1000. Their armor could withstand fire from armaments as powerful as a quad laser cannon. Primary modifications for atmospheric deployment included turbojets, repulsorlifts, and antisepsis fields to protect the ship and its systems from metal- and silicate-eating fungi. The vessel could only reach speeds of .5 past supersonic, but still included artificial gravity. The Turbostorm-class gunship was produced by Sienar Fleet Systems some time prior to the Clone Wars. The Balawai government on Haruun Kal used them in the Summertime War, purchasing them from the proximal world of Opari and modifying them for atmospheric flight. As of 22 BBY, during the Clone Wars, the Confederacy of Independent Systems supplied them freely to the Haruun Kal government. The Skipray Blastboat, a craft designed just before the breakout of the Clone Wars, was based heavily on the Turbostorm design.Star Wars: Edge of the Empire Beta The Turbostorm-class gunship was introduced in the 2003 novel Shatterpoint by Matthew Stover, which was published as the first in the Clone Wars multimedia project. It later received entries in The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia in 2008The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia and the role-playing rulebooks Star Wars: Edge of the Empire Beta and Star Wars: Edge of the Empire Core Rulebook in 2012 and 2013 respectively.Star Wars: Edge of the Empire Core Rulebook *Shatterpoint *Shatterpoint abridged audiobook *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia *Star Wars: Edge of the Empire Beta *Star Wars: Edge of the Empire Core Rulebook Category:Gunship starship classes Category:Sienar Fleet Systems products