83824
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Beedo%27s_Wild_Ride
Beedo's Wild Ride
2684

thumb|right|250px Beedo's Wild Ride was a podracing course on Ando Prime and the third race of the Amateur Podracing Circuit. The podracer Aldar Beedo performed quite well on this track, so it was named after him. The course took place on slippery snow and ice, causing many crashes, and ergo much entertainment for the fans. thumb|250px|Aldar Beedo, the track favorite, navigating the course Beginning near the Bendu Statue, racers flew through the side of a massive mountain and into the canyons below. Turning left into the frozen waterways, racers could choose to take a secret route through an iced-over tunnel leading through the mountain, shaving seconds off their time. Quickly, as the main track went into the mountain, the pods had to traverse a long, creaky wooden bridge and jump over a pit and through a waterfall. Immediately afterward, they had to slide around a quick hairpin, which put the racers outside again. Subsequently, they had to travel over several stories of frozen lakes, stair-stepping down while avoiding walls and icebergs. Traveling further and quicker along the snowy route, the racers had to keep speed up to avoid falling into the bottomless pits below. The trail went into the mountain again, and they finally made it around the cliffs back into the stadium. Due to the slippery nature of Ando Prime's courses, racers equipped with high-traction grips excelled in this environment. With the long straightways on this course, high top-speed ratings were common. This course was the third race in the Amateur Podracing Circuit tournament. *Aldar Beedo *Semipro Circuit track: Howler Gorge *Galactic Circuit track: Andobi Mountain Run *Invitational Circuit track: Ando Prime Centrum *Star Wars: Episode I Racer *Star Wars: Episode I Racer: Prima's Official Strategy Guide *Star Wars: Episode I Racer Official Nintendo Player's Guide Category:Ando Prime locations Category:Podracing courses