84334
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Evan_Chan
Evan Chan
5193

Evan Chan was a Human male who was employed as an environmental hydrographer for the Galactic Republic. His job required him to travel to different planets in order to evaluate the condition of their bodies of water. In 19 BBY, Chan was preparing for a lengthy off-world trip at the Chancellor Palpatine Spaceport on the planet Coruscant, the Republic's capital planet, by drinking SomnaSkol Red, an alcoholic beverage, inside the spaceport's refresher. He witnessed the unusual way Jedi Master Yoda, disguised as an R2-series astromech droid, evaded another such unit working as security detail for the spaceport. Evan Chan was a Human male who worked and was granted a certification under the Galactic Republic as an environmental hydrographer. Part of his job responsibilities included evaluating the condition of the bodies of water on different planets. Although his work meant that he had to travel to many worlds in order to analyze the quality of oceans, rivers, and lakes across the galaxy, Chan was uncomfortable at the prospect of extra-solar travel via hyperspace due to his religious beliefs. Additionally, the thought of his molecules and atoms being twisted made him physically nauseous. thumb|right|300px|Jedi Master Yoda (pictured) was seen by Chan while disguised as an R2 unit. Sometime in 19 BBY,The Essential Reader's Companion dates the events of Yoda: Dark Rendezvous to 19 BBY. Chan was at the Chancellor Palpatine Spaceport, awaiting passage from the Republic's capital planet Coruscant to his latest assignment. Having lost sleep in the past three days due to what he believed was a longer than usual travel time, Chan braced himself for the ordeal by drinking SomnaSkol Red, an alcoholic beverage, inside the men's refresher. While he was inspecting his appearance in the mirror, Chan witnessed a strange R2-series astromech droid with no markings enter the room, float in the air, and trap the spaceport's security R2 unit&mdash;which had been trailing it&mdash;inside one of the stalls. The odd R2 unit was actually Jedi Master Yoda in disguise for a secret mission to bring Separatist leader Count Dooku back into the Jedi Order. Believing the SomnaSkol Red was making him see things, Chan poured the remaining contents of his drink from his hip flask into the sink and swore off that particular brand of alcohol. Chan had major qualms about hyperspace travel due to his spirituality. The idea of his atoms and molecules being warped in order to travel long distances made him physically uneasy, causing him to feel sick to his stomach and experience nausea. Chan owned a hip flask that he considered invaluable. Evan Chan was created by author Sean Stewart for his 2004 novel, Yoda: Dark Rendezvous. *Yoda: Dark Rendezvous *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Galactic Republic individuals Category:Humans Category:Individuals with he/him pronouns Category:Males