84344
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Glorii_Profus
Glorii Profus
4135

Glorii Profus was a Galactic Republic&ndash;affiliated Kaminoan who served as a mentop&mdash;a part psychiatric, part spiritual adviser&mdash;to the Grand Army of the Republic's clone troopers. Profus gave a ritualistic speech to the troopers who departed to fight in the Clone Wars against the Confederacy of Independent Systems. Glorii Profus was a Kaminoan loyal to the Galactic Republic who participated in the training of the Grand Army of the Republic, which comprised soldiers cloned from bounty hunter Jango Fett's DNA on the planet Kamino. Profus served as a mentop&mdash;a combination of a psychiatric and spiritual advisor&mdash;to many clone troopers, including Advanced Recon Commando Alpha-98's cohort. Profus taught the clone troopers not to be afraid of death, and he gave a ritualistic speech to troopers who departed to fight in the Clone Wars, the conflict between the Republic and the Confederacy of Independent Systems, while he toasted them with a cup of the finest Tallian wine in the quadrant. His words comforted numerous clones before they marched to battle, and Alpha-98 fondly remembered Profus' teachings. Profus was a silver-skinned Kaminoan with a long and gracefully arched neck. His voice was cultured and comforting as he gave his speech to the clone troopers, saying that their bodies would seed the stars after their deaths. Profus taught the troopers that their proudest duty was to serve the Republic and die a good death. Glorii Profus was briefly mentioned in The Cestus Deception, a 2004 novel by Steven Barnes. In 2008, Profus received an entry in The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia. Profus's entry addressed him as "mentor," instead of The Cestus Deception spelling of "mentop." However, The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia also included an entry for "mentop." *The Cestus Deception *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Healers and doctors Category:Individuals of unspecified gender Category:Individuals with he/him pronouns Category:Kaminoans Category:Religious workers