84447
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Syboona_(species)
Syboona (species)
7816

Jason Fry, co-author of The Essential Atlas, stated his intention to create homeworlds for numerous species based on context implied from their names. Syboona appears to be one such case. |habitat= |diet= |language= }} Syboonas were a species of blue-skinned humanoid sentient beings from the eponymous world of Syboona. They had thin physiques and long limbs, and their heads featured long curved muzzles. Knire Dark was a Syboona who distinguished herself in the sport of Podracing during the final years of the Galactic Republic. Syboonas were a species of stocky humanoid sentient beings, who had long arms and clawed, four-fingered hands as well as wide chests and long, curving muzzles. Their skin was blue, and they stood on legs that ended in four-toed, clawed feet. The head featured red eyes and upright ears. At least one Syboona, Knire Dark, wore a long garment of green, ornately patterned fabric with yellow designs that wrapped around her head and neck, trailed narrowly down her torso and formed a skirt of sorts at her waist, from which she wore a pair of dark brown trousers. thumb|right|250px|Knire Dark pilots her green Serabyss Howler 1165. The Syboona species originated from the world of Syboona in the Danjar sector of the Outer Rim Territories. &mdash; Based on corresponding data for Syboona system Knire Dark was a Syboona female and smuggler who ran a contraband storehouse; to cover this up, she also entered into the sport of Podracing, where she distinguished herself in the last years of the Galactic Republic,Star Wars: Racer Revenge, which includes the appearances of Serabyss Howler 1165 and the Podracing Open, takes place eight years after the events of Star Wars: Episode I The Phantom Menace, which The New Essential Chronology dates to 32 BBY. Therefore, the events of Star Wars: Racer Revenge must take place in 24 BBY, which predates the fall of the Galactic Republic by five years, according to The New Essential Chronology. secretly using her career to ship contraband across the galaxy. The Podracer and smuggler Knire Dark competed in the Outer Rim Territories-wide Podracing Open in 24 BBY, where she flew a Serabyss Howler 1165 podracer. Her criminal activities influenced her racing style; she was furtive and shy on the circuit, keeping her distance from other pilots and only defending her position when absolutely necessary.Star Wars: Racer Revenge: Prima's Official Strategy Guide The existence of her storehouse was discovered in 22 BBY provides a Great ReSynchronization date of 13:3:28, which corresponds to 22 BBY, according to the explanation found here. by Republic agents and was one of several events that tarnished the reputation of the sport. The incident roundly ended her career. thumb|right|150px|Concept art for the Syboona species The Syboona species first appeared in the 2002 LucasArts video game Star Wars: Racer Revenge and was named in the accompanying strategy guide, written by Mario De Govia and Damien Waples. Concept art for the Syboona species in Racer Revenge differs little from Knire Dark's portrayal in game, though she is depicted with a staff of unknown significance in artwork; this item does not appear in the game itself. *Star Wars: Racer Revenge *Star Wars: Racer Revenge: Prima's Official Strategy Guide *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Outer Rim Territories sentient species