85190
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Alwari
Alwari
3400

thumb|right|250px|Alwari nomads. The Alwari were groups of nomadic Ansionians. They were opposed by the Unity of Community, the governing body of Ansion's urban populations. The urbanites and the Alwari had had conflicts going back millennia, but a truce was established around 222 BBY. The truce was nearly broken due to the Commerce Guild's meddling in the Unity during the Separatist Crisis antecedent to the Clone Wars. The Alwari supported staying in the Galactic Republic. All Alwari were traditionalists, and generally considered the use of technology to be a sign of affiliation with the Unity, although several clans, including the Borokii overclan, incorporated some technology while still maintaining the predominant trappings of tradition. The Yiwa, for example, were suspicious of other people and, while unmistakably bound by tradition, still incorporated some technology in weapons and solar power. Even so, they intentionally modified their portable glowpoles (under which they held their clan meetings) to flicker, to simulate the flickering of traditional torchlights. This was to reverence the conditions under which their ancestors had held their gatherings. Alwari clans included the Tasbir, the Pangay Ous, the Nazay, the Niruu, and the Yiwa, and most fell under tribal factions, such as the Northern Bands, the Southern Hatagai, and the Qiemo Adrangar. Minor clans included the Eihin, the Eijin, and the Gaxun. The Borokii, with its council of elders, was considered the greatest of the overclans, although some said that the Borokii were about equal with the Januul, with its council of elders; these longtime rivals each had branches or subclans—such as the Situng Borokii and the Hovsgol Januul. The Alwari ate proportionately more meat than either Humans or urbanite Ansionians. Alwari clans were identified by body scent, forehead tattoos, and mane decoration. Although sadain were generally used as both mounts and beasts of burden, the use of a suubatar marked one as a person of importance and taste among the Alwari. Cracking one's knuckles was a form of applause and approbation among them. After 22 BBY, the Alwari were represented, not by factional ruling councils, but by a unified Council of Alwari Elders. *The Approaching Storm *The Approaching Storm abridged audiobook *MedStar II: Jedi Healer *Star Wars: Revenge of the Sith novelization *Coruscant Nights II: Street of Shadows *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Ansionian organizations