86423
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Emperor-4_beam_tube
Emperor-4 beam tube
3885

The Emperor-4 beam tube was a beam tube produced by Timms UniStar Armaments during the early years of the Galactic Republic. The Emperor-4 beam tube consisted of a two-handed weapon weighing over fifteen kilograms, and a power cell backpack massing over thirty kilograms. The backpack supplied the weapon with ammunition, but was only able to supply less than one hundred shots. The combined weight of the weapon and its backpack severely restricted the mobility of the soldier wielding it. The weapon's particle beam was generated and focused using four energy cyclers, twelve refinement tubes, and twelve low-grade crystals. The internal refinement tubes were easily knocked out of alignment, and it required up to four hours to reconfigure them before the weapon was functional. The power system for the Emperor-4 was provided by the backpack power cell that included a recharge port and small refrigeration unit that was intended to keep the power cell operating at a safe temperature level. The system was attached to a heavy blast vest. This vest was covered in composite ceramics that were designed to absorb and dissipate the kinetic energy from projectile weapons. Other systems built into the vest included a reserve power cell, an internal comlink with a four-kilometer range, and an emergency homing beacon that could guide rescue personnel to the wearer. Firing the Emperor-4 took several seconds as the weapon had to process enough energy to release a blast. The weapon had a maximum range of fifty meters, with an optimum range of twenty meters. The resultant beam generated a large amount of heat due to an inefficient energy conversion process. Twelve cooling motors were installed in the weapon to protect the beam tube's sensitive internal components, which expelled the hot air out of the weapon and into the face of the soldier using it. The Emperor-4 was therefore uncomfortable to use. Due to the limitations of the Emperor-4, squads carrying them worked together, alternating their fire to allow them to cover each other during combat. The weapon's limited ammunition, combined with the near-constant need for recharging, led to squads to transporting power generators on repulsorlift sleds. *The Essential Guide to Weapons and Technology Category:Energy weaponry Category:Personal weaponry Category:Timms UniStar Armaments products