87513
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/DS-29-4
DS-29-4
3982

**Imperial Navy |masters= |apprentices= }} DS-29-4 was the call sign of a TIE pilot who served in the Imperial Navy by 0 BBY. In that year, the Battle of Yavin occurred,The New Essential Chronology during which Alliance to Restore the Republic starfighters attempted to destroy the Galactic Empire's DS-1 Orbital Battle Station. DS-29-4 was among the TIE pilots who participated in the battle, which saw numerous Imperial TIE/LN starfighters trying to defend the battle station from the Alliance starfighters. Ultimately, the Battle of Yavin ended with an Imperial defeat when the Rebel starfighters destroyed the space station. thumb|right|250px|The A New Hope TIE fighter which was identified by the Battle of Yavin set of the Star Wars Trading Card Game as DS-29-4, though previously it was identified as DS-61-9 in the A New Hope expansion set DS-29-4's name was coined in 2003 for a card in the Battle of Yavin expansion set of the Star Wars Trading Card Game. While the card attaches the DS-29-4 name to a TIE/LN starfighter, 2008's The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia would later identify DS-29-4 as the pilot. This article assumes that the latter source is correct. A further discrepancy exists surrounding the exact identity of DS-29-4. The card used by the Star Wars Trading Card Game to represent DS-29-4 is a screenshot from the 1977 original trilogy film Star Wars: Episode IV A New Hope of a TIE/LN starfighter destroyed by Rebel pilot Luke Skywalker. However, 2002's A New Hope expansion set previously used an image of the same starfighter to represent DS-61-9, another name designated as the starfighter, before The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia also designated that as the pilot's call sign. This article treats both DS-61-9 and DS-29-4 as separate TIE pilots and avoids linking either of the pilots to the fighter shown in A New Hope. *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Imperial Navy pilots of the Galactic Empire Category:Individuals of unspecified gender Category:Individuals of unspecified species Category:Individuals with unspecified pronouns