87639
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Nagai%E2%80%93Tof_War
Nagai–Tof War
41236

|date= |place=Outer Rim Territories |result=Alliance/Imperial/Nagai victoryStar Wars (1977) 107 |battles=*Skirmish on Kashyyyk,Star Wars (1977) 91 *Battle of HerdessaStar Wars (1977) 88 *Skirmish in the Cantros system *Skirmish on KabrayStar Wars (1977) 95 *Skirmish on KinooineStar Wars (1977) 96 *Battle of MandaloreStar Wars (1977) 99 *Second Battle of EndorStar Wars (1977) 100 *Battle of IskalonStar Wars (1977) 102 *Battle of TrenwythStar Wars (1977) 103 *Twelfth Battle of ZeltrosStar Wars (1977) 104Star Wars (1977) 105Star Wars (1977) 106 *Battle of Saijo |side1= *Alliance of Free Planets *New Republic *Mandalorians |side2= *Nagai *Maccabree *Faruun |side3=Tof Kingdom |side4=*Galactic EmpireStar Wars (1977) 97 *Lumiya's Sith |commanders1=*Admiral Gial Ackbar *Luke Skywalker *Han Solo *Lando Calrissian *Mandalore Fenn Shysa |commanders2=*Knife *Den Siva *Hol B'shaki *Vargi *Kruskob Tiltanka |commanders3=*Prince Sereno *Supreme *Bargthron |commanders4=*Lumiya *Brylin }} The Nagai&ndash;Tof War was a conflict between the newly formed Alliance of Free Planets, the Galactic Empire, and the invaders of the Nagai and later the Tof species from the Firefist galaxy in the Unknown Regions. The actions of the Nagai very nearly stopped the formation of a new galactic government in the Alliance of Free Planets and marked the first widespread appearance of the new Dark Lady of the Sith Lumiya. The conflict started with small infiltration units of Nagai ordered to disrupt the workings of the Alliance to pave the way for the Nagai expeditionary force. Commander Ozrei N'takkilomandrife, the most talented of these Nagai agents, almost succeeded in restarting the Wookiee slave trade. The arrival of the Nagai Fleet, allied with the Galactic Empire, resulted in all out war; however, the arrival of the Nagai's mortal enemies, the Tof, resulted in the Nagai and Empire allying with the Alliance to stop this new threat. The war also marked the first time Luke Skywalker was defeated in a duel after the death of his father, Darth Vader. The Dark Lady Lumiya defeated the Jedi with a lightwhip on Kinooine, though he was able to defeat her later while using a shoto along with his lightsaber. The war concluded with the capture of the Tof leader Sereno and the brutal maiming of Lumiya. The end of the war was the last time Lumiya was seen publicly for over 35 years. Approximately three centuries before their invasion of Skyriver, the Nagai were a peaceful culture with beautiful cities of gleaming crystal and wire. The Nagai hailed from a planet of similar name, Nagi, which resided in a dwarf galaxy that orbited tightly around the galaxy. At the height of their technological achievement, the Nagai had just discovered the technology of hyperspace and sent an unmanned probe to chart their five-planet star system. This act would change Nagai history forever. A Tof warship picked up the probe on their sensors and tracked its course back to Nagi. The Tof found the Nagai unprepared for attack and immediately unleashed an invasion force against the Nagai. The Nagai were caught completely by surprise, and many were enslaved by the Tof. They eventually initiated a guerilla war against their oppressors, but their willingness to fight only gave the Tof more reason to kill and enslave them. The Tof's brutality forced the Nagai to transform their society and devote all resources to improving their defenses and technology. Years of war proved that direct engagements with Tof forces were suicidal. In order to survive, the Nagai scattered throughout their galaxy and launched hit-and-run attacks from hidden bases. Nagai leaders concluded that years and decades of patience and meticulous planning was required to defeat the Tof. As they explored the galaxy and established colonies, they came in contact with other species that had been oppressed by the Tof. They found an ally in the Maccabree warriors and the Faruun shipbuilders and shared their technology. After centuries of war, the Nagai vowed to never again lie helpless before a greater force. They set their sights on Skyriver with plans to establish a new home and build their own empire before returning to their galaxy to defeat the Tof. In 46 BBY, Nagai scouts established a beachhead in the Unknown Regions. To keep their scouts hidden, they constantly shifted their rendezvous coordinates and utilized primitive cloaking technology to hide their vessels. Scouts were dispersed into the galaxy to gather data and determine whether conquest was possible. After they infiltrated centers of culture, commerce, and the fringe, they determined that the Republic was crumbling under its own corruption. They observed that the grumblings of disaffected beings at the Republic's fringe was growing louder amid the complacency of wealthy politicians. The Nagai believed this was the signs of a coming rebellion. The Nagai observed the Clone Wars with great interest, believing that the instability that should follow would give them the opportunity for invasion they were waiting for. To the Nagai's surprise, a strong Empire replaced the Republic and prevented the destabilization the Nagai sought. The Nagai did not give up hope as their intelligence network uncovered rumors of a rebellion quietly organizing against the Empire. Nagai scout Ton Arashai infiltrated Coruscant's high society as a Senate District maintenance worker. He suspected Bail Organa was connected to the movement, and recognized an Imperial Intelligence agent was also following him. Arashai felt a rebellion could lead to the chaos the Nagai were waiting for, and killed the Imperial agent to prevent Organa's exposure. Over the remainder of the Galactic Civil War, the scouts refrained from getting involved in the Empire's affairs. The Battle of Yavin confirmed that the Rebellion was the catalyst for disorder the Nagai hoped for. Scout Krai H'voc suggested the invasion should wait until the war ended. The Nagai would then strike at the exhausted victor while they were most vulnerable. A new wave of spies and analysts were dispatched to assess the strengths and weaknesses of both sides of the war to predict the victor. Agents infiltrated Rebel cells on Sullust, Thaldo, and Tierfon. Imperial secrets were procured at remote outposts where bribery of disaffected officers provided them with information. In the months following the Battle of Hoth, rumors of a major operation spread through the Imperial and Rebel fleets. The Alliance in particular was in a state of high alert after an operation in Bothan Space. Agents on Sullust reported a Rebel fleet massing in orbit, and Imperial vessels were quietly being reassigned as well. The Nagai believed a significant battle was coming, one that could mark the turning point of the war. A modest fleet of ships rendezvoused in the Unknown Regions. ready to strike as soon as the they determined the outcome of the impending battle. thumb|right|200px|Lumiya leads forces on [[Herdessa/Legends|Herdessa.]] In 4 ABY, the Rebellion struck a huge blow to the Galactic Empire by killing Emperor Palpatine and destroying the Death Star II. In the days following the battle, small Nagai attack groups spread out to coordinate with Nagai agents in systems allied with the Rebels. Nagai navicomputers were extraordinarily quick at calculating jumps, and relied upon tachyonic observational sensors to map realspace hazards much more efficiently than Imperial technology. Nagai scouts used these sensors to chart courses through the galaxy's stellar halo, allowing them to bypass blockades and establish forward bases deep within the galaxy.The Essential Guide to Warfare They would focus on disrupting the stability of key worlds so the Alliance's competency to defend its allies would be brought into question. As these forces prepared to incite chaos, one attack group encountered a formation of Imperial ships in Sith Space. The group's commander broadcasted a proposal for an alliance against their common enemy, the Rebel Alliance. The reply didn't come from and Imperial officer, but from the former Emperor's Hand Lumiya. Accepting the opportunity to exact revenge against her nemesis Luke Skywalker, Lumiya travelled to Herdessa where she became the chief of security, started a slaving operation, and terrorized the populace. A week after the Battle of Endor and the day after the Rebel Alliance was reorganized into the Alliance of Free Planets at the aftermath of the Bakura Incident, Princess Leia Organa, Luke Skywalker, Han Solo, and Chewbacca were all sent on diplomatic missions to non-aligned planets. On these missions, the Alliance got its first glimpse of the Nagai threat. On Herdessa, Princess Leia and Mon Mothma encountered Lumiya and worked with local freedom fighters to end the slave trade. Lumiya escaped, and the Alliance did not learn of the Nagai's involvement.Star Wars (1977) 84 thumb|left|250px|[[Wookiee/Legends|Wookiees fight during the skirmish on Kashyyyk.]] The newly formed Alliance of Free Planets first encountered the Nagai on the planet of Kashyyyk where Commander Ozrei N'takkilomandrife had reestablished their slave trade. Commander Knife, as he was called by the Wookiees, soon had a formidable force on the planet, though he did not identify himself nor those he represented. Allying with Mallatobuck's brother Vargi, Knife became bold enough to attempt to kidnap Alliance diplomats: Chewbacca, Lando Calrissian, and Han Solo. However, a show of force by Chewbacca and the local Wookiees shattered the slaving operation. Unfortunately, Commander Knife escaped to cause further problems for the Alliance. thumb|right|200px|The [[Kabray leadership confirms their allegiance to the Alliance.]] Despite these seeming Alliance victories on Herdessa and Kashyyyk, the operations were Nagai successes. Their goal was to simply plant doubt in the minds of the many species that hoped the Alliance would end the abuse endured under the Empire. Over the next two weeks, further confusion and fear were sowed through various star systems simultaneously. Lumiya charged her apprentice Flint with subjugating the Phelleem sector. Nagai fighter squadrons disrupted shipping lanes in the Habassa system and harassed starships throughout Bothan Space. Nagai raiders targeted governments not yet officially aligned with the Alliance on Virgillia VII and in the isolated sector known as the Mephout Dominion. Though no one claimed responsibility for the attacks, the Alliance wondered if they were a part of a coordinated effort by an unknown enemy. While the Alliance dealt with these Nagai-sponsored attacks, the Nagai targeted the Mandalore Sector. Grand Admiral Josef Grunger was patrolling Gargon in response to reports of "albino-skinned marauders", but he cut this mission short when he decided to launch an attack against a rival Grand Admiral upon receiving word of the Emperor's death. With the Mandalore Sector abandoned by the Empire, its defense was left up to Fenn Shysa and his Mandalorian Protectors. Despite Shysa's best efforts, the Nagai established a handful of bases in the region. A number of skirmishes were fought before the Protectors mounted an attack on a base on Mandallia. Both sides suffered heavy casualties, but the Mandalorians succeeded in chasing the Nagai off planet. The Nagai next set their sights on Mandalore, and Shysa rushed home to defend it. After a pitched battle, the attack was repelled. A number of off-worlders participated in the defense, including a half-Nagai agent named Bey. Bey was the half-Nagai son of Krai H'voc and a Corellian. He was renowned as a CorSec hero before the Empire ended his career. He wandered the galaxy and eventually reunited with his mother on Nagi in Companion Besh. The Nagai accepted him and eventually deployed him to Mandalore as their agent. Analysts concluded Shysa would team with the Alliance once he learned they had a common enemy, allowing Bey to infiltrate the group directly. Knife's work continued as he sowed distrust among fellow Rebels in the Cantros system. Paying off a Rebel named Durne, Knife ensured the slow destruction of both Rebel bases in the system. Working for two different outposts, Durne convinced both groups that the other one was working for the Empire, and the groups began to slowly wipe each other out. Eventually, the wanton slaughter was stopped and Durne was captured by members of the Alliance. Unfortunately, the Nagai plot resulted in a great loss of life.Star Wars (1977) 93 While Luke Skywalker investigated the disappearance of a scouting party on Kinooine, Princess Leia travelled to a conference on Kabray to assuage the fears of Alliance members who felt that the Rebel leadership was unfit to establish a galactic government. Commander Knife made another appearance as he took important Alliance delegates as prisoners. However, the Nagai once again underestimated their captives, and Alliance forces were successful in defeating the Nagai forces, capturing Commander Knife in the process. The Nagai prisoners were rushed back to Endor where telepathic Hoojibs learned the name of their species and confirmed they were responsible for the unexplained assaults on Alliance worlds. The Alliance scrambled to prepare for an unspecified attack, ending the brief respite the fragmentation of the Empire had given them. thumb|left|200px|The Nagai fleet over Kinooine. The Nagai alone may have been a formidable foe, but an alliance with the Empire elevated the threat of a Nagai victory in the conflict. Lady Lumiya had recognized the Nagai as a means to the destruction of her enemies and allied herself and her forces with the Nagai. Lieutenant Den Siva was assigned as an aide to Lumiya, and she made preparations for the Nagai fleet to attack the Alliance of Free Planets. Establishing an underground base on Kinooine, Lumiya and Siva prepared for the bulk of the Nagai war machine to arrive. Platoons of stormtroopers had returned with the Nagai back to their home galaxy and helped guide the Nagai fleet back to the fresh staging point on Kinooine. Unfortunately for them, the secret arrival of the fleet was disrupted when an Alliance task force that had been specifically trained by Jedi Knight Luke Skywalker arrived on Kinooine to scout the area. Lumiya and Siva intercepted the group, and they were subsequently slaughtered. Skywalker investigated the disappearance of the missing team and found himself in a duel with Lumiya. Even before she attacked, he sensed her true identity as Shira Brie, his former lover. She bested Luke with her lightwhip, captured his companion Dani, and left his other companion Kiro for dead. After Kiro freed Luke and Dani, Luke confronted Lumiya for a second duel. He countered her lightwhip with a second lightsaber, and pleaded with her to turn away from the dark side as her master had done. His attempt was interrupted by the arrival of the Nagai invasion force. Luke escaped the landing area, gathered any information he could from their database, and escaped to relay it to Alliance command. While Luke described the fleet at Kinooine as an invasion force, the Nagai only considered it an expeditionary force. Once their base at Kinooine was operational, it was to serve as a launching point for their true invasion. The initial several dozen capital ships carried over two thousand Nagai and Maccabree troops, and over one hundred Imperial troops under Lumiya's command. The Nagai fleet was faster and more efficient than most ships used by the Alliance, and they incorporated the latest cloaking devices developed by General Kruskob "Kob" Tiltanka. Standardized ship classifications were foreign to the Nagai, and their fleet was an eclectic collection of unique designs. Their starfighters were faster and more maneuverable, but their weaponry was less powerful. thumb|right|200px|Alliance fighters engage the Nagai over Endor.While Skywalker raced back to Endor, Fenn Shysa, his Mandalorian Protectors, and Bey arrived on the forest moon to fight alongside the Alliance. The Alliance was grateful for their help, having recently lost units on Champala, Ord Bueri, and Koda Space Station. Skywalker's report of an invasion fleet confirmed that an attack was imminent. An evacuation of Endor began, but only a few ships departed before a large group of fighter craft entered the system, beginning the Second Battle of Endor. Admiral Ackbar launched fighters to cover the evacuation. The defense consisted of Gold Leader Lando Calrissian from his modified Mu-class scout shuttle Cobra, Rogue Squadron led by Wedge Antilles, and the Mandalorians' Resurrector Squadron. Lumiya acted as flight leader for the Nagai forces, leading them from her Screamer starfighter. The Alliance pilots fought hard, but began to be overwhelmed by the Nagai, who seemed to anticipate their every move. Hours earlier, Nagai and Maccabree troops led by Lieutenant Hool B'shaki landed on Endor in secret and freed Knife and the other prisoners. Skywalker and Solo discovered the landing force, and realized the Nagai had an informant on Endor. Skywalker rushed to Endor Station to warn Ackbar of the Nagai ground troops. Solo raced to the ship tracking station, but was confronted by his childhood friend Bey, who admitted that he had brought the Nagai to Endor. When Bey couldn't bring himself to kill Solo, his half-brother Knife went to finish the job. After a brief struggle, Solo shot Knife, and Bey allowed him to escape. Once aware of the traitor, Ackbar signaled that the fleet's battle plans had been compromised. Lando quickly transmitted a new erratic plan to his pilots, allowing them to pick off the Nagai fighters. With her forces in disarray, Lumiya sounded the retreat and abandoned the ground troops on Endor. The Nagai troops were intercepted by Major Bren Derlin's assault team before they could reach the Alliance base, allowing High Command to complete their evacuation. Luke, Leia, and her Zeltron aides fended off a Maccabree attack on the tracking station. The surviving Nagai fled and regrouped at Kinooine. The fleet then hopscotched among backworlds until it reached Terminus, gaining access to both the Corellian Trade Spine and the Hydian Way. The Nagai had become a real threat, and Alliance leaders recognized a need for a plan of attack against the invaders. thumb|left|200px|[[Trenwyth/Legends|Trenwyth was desolated by the Tof forces.]] After leaving Endor, the Alliance fleet dispersed to secure star systems. Mon Mothma and Ackbar remained on the move, while a large contingent under the command of General Rieekan returned to Arbra's Haven Base. Despite the Nagai threat, the Alliance launched a number of operations against Imperial forces, such as the liberation of Ralltiir, and Rogue Squadron's mission to Cilpar. The Alliance learned just how widespread the Nagai infiltration was as they left Endor. A portion of the fleet including the Millennium Falcon arrived at Sullust and was ambushed by a waiting Nagai squadron. The unexpected battle proved costly, but the Alliance eventually forced the enemy to retreat. An Alliance outpost on Saijo was overrun by Maccabree warriors, allowing for the domination of that world and others along the Corellian Trade Spine. The Nagai also scored victories along the Hydian Way at Rutan and Shumavar. Nagai forces continued to harass Alliance worlds, and Nagai General Kob subjugated and enslaved the world of Iskalon. The local populace, combined with an Alliance strike force, fought back against the invaders, resulting in heavy losses for both sides. The destruction of the Nagai forward base changed the course of the battle, but the Iskalonians, distraught at the loss of their people, requested that the Alliance evacuate the planet as well. A plan of attack had still not been formulated, but luckily for the Alliance, the plan fell right into their lap. The war shifted directions once the Nagai's old enemies, the Tof, eventually succeeded in tracking the Nagai to Alliance space. The Tof fleet engaged the Nagai Twelfth Squadron on Trenwyth and utterly annihilated them. No prisoners were taken and officially, all lives were lost. The Nagai were unprepared for the return of their old enemy and were in a poor position to deal with them. However, the Nagai command decided to continue with their conquest and ignore the Tof threat. The Nagai next set their sights on Zeltros just as the Zeltron leaders considered joining the Alliance of Free Planets. Den Siva led a Nagai squadron against Alliance forces where they succeeded in capturing prominent Alliance members who were attending a party on the planet. The quick victory was not to be enjoyed; however, as the Tof threat was closer than the Nagai wished to think. Caught off-guard by a large Tof force, Siva and his men were beaten and quickly captured. The Alliance were initially grateful for their rescue, but soon came to realize that the Tof were selfish beings and had no interest in siding with the Alliance. The Tofs attempted to capture or kill everyone on the planet regardless of their affiliation. Only through the combined efforts of both the Alliance, the Nagai, and a taskforce of Hiromi were the Tof beaten. The return of the Tof helped dismantle the Nagai's plan for galactic domination and they allied with the Alliance of Free Planets to defeat the Tof. Lumiya was furious with this decision, as the Sith only wished to see the destruction of the Alliance and cared little for the Tof threat. However, Lumiya's Imperial forces had a different idea, recognizing that they would not be safe in a galaxy ruled by the Tof. While Lumiya set out to join the Tof war machine, the Empire itself threw its backing against the Tofs. Days after the agreement with the Nagai, the Alliance formed the New Republic. The Nagai, not willing to join the new government, insisted that their agreement was made with the Alliance of Free Planets, and would not extend beyond the Tof defeat. C-3PO and R2-D2, however, were later temporarily loaned off by their owners to Star Tours in order to focus on fighting off the Tof threat. thumb|right|200px|The [[Battle of Saijo.]] Even with the rearranging of loyalty, the war continued to rage, this time with the Nagai, the New Republic, Mandalorians, and the Empire grouping together to defeat the Tof war machine. With their combined forces, they slowly began to push the Tof back. The complex battle strategies were beyond the Tof's understanding. What they lacked in imagination, they made up for in brute force. They were driven from various systems, but most battles were protracted and costly. A planned assault on Fondor was repelled by a combined New Republic/Nagai fleet, with high casualties on both sides. The Tof retreated from battle in the Thesme sector only after inflicting thirty percent casualties on a Mandalorian task force. But for every lost system, the Tofs became more entrenched on the worlds they already held. Fighting dragged on for months, eventually leaving the Tof with heavily fortified bases on Trenwyth, Saijo, and Telfry. Four months after the Battle of Endor, the New Republic and its allies finally routed them off two of the worlds, forcing them back to seemingly impenetrable Saijo. Admiral Ackbar sent Kyle Katarn and mercenaries Dash Rendar and Guri on a top secret mission to place a spy on Saijo. A month later, the spy reported that the Tof leader Prince Sereno had established Saijo as his personal base. Ackbar believed the capture of the Tof leader would result in their surrender, and launched a full-scale assault. As the Tof made their final stand, trench warfare ensued with the allied forces slowly pushing their way towards Prince Sereno's headquarters. While commandos distracted enemy ground troops, the Alliance Star Destroyer Emancipator (formally the Accuser), Gold Squadron, and Rogue Squadron attacked the Tof bulk cruiser Merriweather. A strike team including Leia, Han, Luke, Dani, Knife, and Siva infiltrated Sereno's base by posing as prisoners. A lightfight erupted in the Prince's throne room involving the infiltrators and Tof troops led by Lumiya. Leia was nearly killed by Lumiya before one of the Tof blasted the cyborg. This Tof, Ackbar's spy in disguise, revealed himself to be Bey, who had secretly turned himself into the Admiral shortly after his treachery on Endor. The battle ended when Skywalker captured the Prince, who gave the order to surrender. Shortly after the conflict, the New Republic offered the Nagai full membership in the new galactic government and offered to rebuild the world of Saijo as a new homeworld for the Nagai so that they could live in peace. However, most of the Nagai decided to set out to find their own world, and returned to liberate Nagi from the Tofs still reigning there. The Mandalorians under Fenn Shysa joined the Nagai in their fight to liberate Nagi and left New Republic space for a time. Bey eventually began working for New Republic intelligence, considering the job his penance for the damage he caused at Endor. Several Nagai decided to stay in New Republic space and became well known for their fighting techniques in local fighting arenas. Nagai forces eventually liberated Nagi, and Fenn Shysa returned to defend his homeworld. Two years later, the New Republic, would take Coruscant from Imperial rule and thus the New Republic, had officially replaced the Galactic Empire. The Dark Lady Lumiya went into hiding. The Sith Lady's forces had abandoned her during the conflict, and it is unknown if they rejoined her after her apparent death in the final battle of the war. Many in the Alliance believed Lumiya to be dead after the conflict, but the absence of a body left many New Republic commanders to designate her as a possible threat in the future. Months after the final battle, Lumiya began briefly working for Imperial Intelligence Director Ysanne Isard. After the conclusion of the war at Saijo, the New Republic launched its main liberation campaign against the Galactic Empire. The Nagai&ndash;Tof War first appeared in the final issues of the Star Wars comic book series produced by Marvel. The conflict was never given a canon name for many years; the online Star Wars encyclopedia Wookieepedia used the title "Nagai&ndash;Tof War" for the article on the conflict. It was not until 2009, when James McFadden wrote the Hyperspace-exclusive article The Forgotten War: The Nagai and the Tofs, that the name was canonized. *Battle of Herdessa *Skirmish on Kashyyyk *Skirmish in the Cantros system *Battle of Koda Space Station *Battle of Mephout *Battle of Virgillia *Battle of Mandallia *Battle of Mandalore *Skirmish on Kabray *Skirmish on Kinooine *Second Battle of Endor *Battle of Terminus *Battle of Sullust *Raid on Saijo *Battle of Rutan *Battle of Faldos *Battle of Shumavar *Battle of Manpha *Battle of the Berrol's Donn system *Battle of Mon Gazza *Battle of Iskalon *Battle of Trenwyth *Twelfth Battle of Zeltros *Conquest of Saijo *Battle of Fondor *Battle of the Thesme sector *Battle of Saijo *Star Wars (1977) 88 *Star Wars (1977) 91 *Star Wars (1977) 93 *Star Wars (1977) 95 *Star Wars (1977) 96 *Star Wars (1977) 97 *Star Wars (1977) 100 *Star Wars (1977) 102 *Star Wars (1977) 103 *Star Wars (1977) 104 *Star Wars (1977) 105 *Star Wars (1977) 106 *Star Wars (1977) 107 *The Essential Guide to Alien Species *The New Essential Guide to Characters *The New Essential Chronology *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia *The Essential Atlas *Galaxy at War *The Unknown Regions *The Essential Guide to Warfare }} Category:Galactic Civil War campaigns