87811
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/GSI-21D
GSI-21D
4084

The GSI-21D was a disruptor pistol manufactured by Galactic Solutions Industries. It was used by officers and veterans of the Brotherhood of Darkness's Sith army during the New Sith Wars and was illegal in most Galactic Republic sectors because of its power. The GSI-21D was efficient at vaporizing flesh, droid plating, and armor. The GSI-21D was a very powerful pistol, one of the most powerful disruptors available during the time of the New Sith Wars. The weapon was described as the finest disruptor pistol manufactured by Galactic Solutions Industries in the years leading up to the Battle of Ruusan. Each power pack held enough energy for twelve shots before it needed to be replaced, and the maximum range of the pistol was slightly over twenty meters, though the optimum range was below twenty. When fired in its optimum range, the GSI-21D could easily disintegrate flesh, bone, droid plating, and armor with equal efficiency. Due to its deadly abilities, it was illegal to own the weapon in most sectors of the galaxy controlled by the Galactic Republic. Sometime prior to the Battle of Phaseera, Galactic Solutions Industries designed and manufactured the GSI-21D disruptor pistol. Officers and veteran soldiers who proved their combat skills in the Brotherhood of Darkness's Sith army were often assigned the pistols. Dessel, a sergeant in the Gloom Walkers unit of the Brotherhood of Darkness, used a GSI-21D when he fought in the Battle of Phaseera. After Dessel was arrested by the Sith army for assaulting his superior officer, Lieutenant Ulabore, his GSI-21D was removed from him before he was sent to prison to await his court-martial. The GSI-21D was first featured in the novel Darth Bane: Path of Destruction, written by Drew Karpyshyn and released on September 26, 2006. In December 2008, the pistol received an entry in The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia. *Darth Bane: Path of Destruction *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Disruptor pistols Category:Galactic Solutions Industries products