88103
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/BT-16_perimeter_droid
BT-16 perimeter droid
7107

}} The BT-16 perimeter droid, also known as the VT-16, was a bulbous, spider-like droid manufactured by Arakyd Industries. The BT-16 perimeter droid was manufactured by Arakyd Industries. The droid resembled an arachnid in design, with its long legs giving the unit stability while in motion and superior speed. Shortly before the Battle of Yavin, Arakyd redesigned the droid. The new design of the BT-16 was heavily borrowed from MerenData's TS-Arach series Pest Control Droid.The New Essential Guide to Droids The BT-16 possessed heavy armor plating that gave it a degree of resistance to both physical and energy damage. The unit also mounted a Taim & Bak repeating blaster. The droid's sensor package was advanced, including a Carbanti United Electronics motion sensor and a Fabritech seismic sensor. The package was designed to sense the movement and presence of small animals. The sensors were located in the droid's abdomen. The BT-16 was a droid well-known for its reliability. It was intended to protect farmland and related areas, such as hydroponics gardens, from being invaded and harmed by small creatures. The BT-16 soon became favored by farmers who needed to protect their land from "varmints." The B'omarr Order modified the frames of BT-16s to serve as walkers for the monk's disembodied brains. These armatures were referred to as "brain walkers." A used BT-16 perimeter security droid was utilized by the Katarn family of farmers on Sulon, a satellite of Sullust. The droid, programmed to hunt vermin, possessed a faulty sensor package which caused it to fire upon and kill Patricia Katarn. Around 1 BBY, Jarik at StarForge Station made a posting on Cynabar's Droid Datalog offering smugglers payment for military-grade missile racks. He had a client who wanted to upgun their BT-16s to increase the defence around their manor house. The Galactic Empire purchased a large amount of the redesigned BT-16s for used aboard the first Death Star. Before the droids could begin operating aboard the battle station, it was destroyed. LBT-16 was a BT-16 droid that was part of the droid lot available for purchase at Jawa Traders on the planet Tatooine. In Cynabar's Fantastic Technology: Droids, the picture of the BT-16 is a mirrored version of the TS-Arach series Pest Control Droid image from the same guide. The New Essential Guide to Droids established that Arakyd introduced a newer version of the BT-16 that heavily resembled the TS-Arach shortly before the Battle of Yavin. *Star Wars: Episode IV A New Hope junior novelization *Super Star Wars *Tag & Bink Are Dead 1 *Galaxy Guide 7: Mos Eisley *Star Wars Technical Journal of the Planet Tatooine *Shadows of the Empire Planets Guide *Cynabar's Fantastic Technology: Droids *The New Essential Guide to Droids *Rebellion Era Campaign Guide Category:Arakyd Industries products Category:Security droid models