88587
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/2JTJ_personal_navigation_droid
2JTJ personal navigation droid
3535

The 2JTJ personal navigation droid, designed by Genetech Corporation, was a personal aide designed to assist the newly sightless. The 2JTJ used many features of a standard protocol droid. Some of these included a silvery humanoid frame and an advanced personality program. Its head had many additional sensor nodes that enabled the droid to make infrared scans, project radar sweeps, generate echolocating pings, and fire invisible, low power lasers to measure distances. The droid also had extra-long arms to help its master in case they stumbled. The droid could receive either feminine or masculine programming at the owner's request. Although either one of these created a personality that was annoyingly perky. The droid's good cheer and happiness could be somewhat annoying when a patient was still working through the stressfulness of losing their sight. In any year, 80% of all 2JTJ droids were sold to hospitals and rehab centers. Doctors employed these 2JTJ droids to work with patients who had recently lost their sight to accident or disease. They also helped with those who have cyborg optic implants, but found it difficult to make the transition to digitized vision. The other 20% of 2JTJ droids were bought by private individuals who usually lived alone and needed a helping hand once in a while. Genetech slowly grew the market for the 2JTJ by advertising the model to nonhumans who lacked normal optical senses. Genetech included the Miraluka among their target demographic, apparently being unaware that the species was able to see without the use of eyes. These droids also made very capable chauffeur and could find the most direct route to any destination with its automapping software. Also, when traveling on foot the droid recited any obstacles appearing in the master's path. Sometimes though the droid was a little too helpful. In the case with Jedi Master Tahl the droid mentioned every root and leaf in the way of the Jedi. *Jedi Apprentice: The Uncertain Path *Jedi Apprentice: The Captive Temple *Jedi Apprentice Special Edition: Deceptions *The Clone Wars: Secret Missions 1: Breakout Squad *The New Essential Guide to Droids Category:Genetech Corporation products Category:Service droid models