88541
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Jeseej
Jeseej
5654

Jeseej was a male Sljee who operated as a forger, fortune teller, and information dealer. The owner of the restaurant Zlato's Place on Coruscant, Jeseej used it as a front for his forgery business. He was very knowledgeable about the Coruscant underworld and had a reputation among his clients for being trustworthy and providing useful information. A Force-sensitive, Jeseej also granted clients readings of their future for a fee. thumb|right|250px|Jeseej was a member of the Sjee species (species pictured). The male Sljee Jeseej had for years owned the restaurant Zlato's Place on the Core Worlds planet Coruscant. Zlato's Place specialized in Toydarian dishes, and a dozen Toydarians worked there. However, this restaurant was merely a front for Jeseej's forgery company, and as such, he was comfortable with the fact that the restaurant consistently failed to make a profit. In addition to the twelve Toydarians, Jeseej employed two Squibs able to duplicate an ID card in less than an hour and had a reputation as a skilled forger. In order to meet with the Sljee, a client had to give the correct password to Jessej's Toydarian host, and then pick a certain entrée off a special menu. Only then would the individual be led to see Jeseej in a small room beyond the kitchen. Jeseej was also Force-sensitive and ran a side business as a fortune teller, using his connection to the Force to predict the future for clients of the Coruscant underworld. These customers found his premonitions to be trustworthy, and many of them began focusing their black-market operations around his predictions. Jeseej had a great deal of knowledge about the Coruscant Underworld and was happy to share information in exchange for a healthy sum of credits. He was very careful to avoid attracting the attention of planetary security officials, cautiously running his businesses in secrecy. One of the few Sljee on Coruscant, Jeseej had a strong will and his restaurant employees were very loyal to him. Though his restaurant was unprofitable, Jeseej was unconcerned, as its true goal was to serve as a front for his less-than-legal dealings. Like all Sljee, Jeseej was blind, forcing him to require on his sense of touch and hearing. Easily mistaken for a motile plant or a sort of bizarre animal, he resembled a gray table with tentacles and stumpy legs, a trait shared by all members of his species. Well-versed in the Coruscant underlevels, Jeseej was skilled at gathering information and gained a reputation as a talented and trustworthy forger and information dealer who provided useful news. As a Force-sensitive fortune teller, Jeseej was highly valued, and his clients found his premonitions to be advantageous and uncannily accurate. He could speak both Sljee and Galactic Basic Standard, was skilled at repairing machines, and had knowledge of organic biology. Jeseej was created for the sourcebook Coruscant and the Core Worlds, released in late January 2003. He was first mentioned in online article by Wizards of the Coast titled "Jeseej and the Sljee", a preview of Coruscant and the Core Worlds released on January 2 of that year. *Coruscant and the Core Worlds *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Business owners and executives Category:Coruscanti Category:Force-sensitives Category:Forgers Category:Fortune tellers Category:Individuals with he/him pronouns Category:Information brokers Category:Males Category:Sljee