88787
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Rundil_ot_Sulem
Rundil ot Sulem
3713

Rundil ot Sulem was a male Human rancher living on Dantooine during the time of the Jedi Civil War. Rundil of Sulem was a rancher who lived on the Outer Rim planet of Dantooine. Several years before 3956 BBY,The Knights of the Old Republic Campaign Guide places the events of Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic, including the interactions with Lur Arka Sulas, in 3956 BBY. Sulas states that Sasha had been kidnapped several years prior to his conversation with Revan. his daughter, Sasha, had been kidnapped by the Mandalorian Neo-Crusaders during a raid on Sulem's ranch. He employed a Twi'lek named Lur Arka Sulas to help find his daughter. In 3956 BBY,The Knights of the Old Republic Campaign Guide places the events of Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic, including the interactions with Lur Arka Sulas, in 3956 BBY. Sulas took up residence in the Jedi Enclave on Dantooine, seeking the help of the Jedi there. Although the Jedi were unable to help him locate her, Sulas was soon approached by the amnesiac Sith Lord Revan, who had escaped the destruction of Taris and was retraining in the light. Sulas asked Revan to keep an eye out for Sasha, and Revan agreed. Some time later, several foodstuffs went missing aboard Revan's ship, the Ebon Hawk. While investigating, Revan stumbled across a young girl living on the ship who fit the description of Sasha. He returned to Dantooine, where Sulas confirmed her identity and reunited Sasha with her father. Rundil ot Sulem was mentioned in the 2003 video game Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic. The conversation in which his mention appears results in the quest 'Alien Stowaway.' The player may decide not to return Sasha to Lur Arka Sulas, and it becomes impossible after the destruction of the Jedi Enclave on Dantooine. *Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic *Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic: Prima's Official Strategy Guide Category:Dantooinians Category:Farmers Category:Humans Category:Males