89437
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Elke_Vetter
Elke Vetter
7726

Elke Vetter was a Human Imperial Knight who served the Fel Empire before Dark Lord of the Sith Darth Krayt deposed Emperor Roan Fel at the end of the Sith–Imperial War. In the proceeding conflict, she served as the bodyguard of Fel's daughter, Princess Marasiah Fel, while the princess acted as her father's emissary and determined the loyalty of the Imperial officers. Vetter was also the Marasiah's friend and master in the ways of the Imperial Knights. In 137 ABY, Vetter was on Socorro with the princess, who hid in an Imperial Mission temple. They were ambushed by Sith Lord Darth Talon, who had recently been promoted to the position of Krayt's Hand. In order to buy time for the princess's escape, Vetter dueled with Talon; however, she was defeated by the Sith. Talon then used the Force to interrogate Vetter, learning vital information before killing her with Force lightning. Elke Vetter, a Human Imperial Knight, served the Fel Empire during the Sith–Imperial War before Dark Lord of the Sith Darth Krayt overthrew Emperor Roan Fel. During the ensuing Second Imperial Civil War, she served as the bodyguard of Fel's daughter, Princess Marasiah Fel, while the princess both acted as her father's emissary and infiltrated planets in secret to discover which Imperial officers remained loyal to him. More than just Fel's bodyguard, Vetter was also the princess's master and friend, instructing her in the ways of the Imperial Knights. In 137 ABY, Vetter was with Marasiah and the Twi'lek Imperial Missionary Astraal Vao, as they infiltrated the world of Socorro. Krayt ordered one of his Sith Lords, the Twi'lek Darth Talon&mdash;who, as one of Krayt's most able servants, had recently been promoted to the position of Hand&mdash;to locate and kill Emperor-in-exile Roan Fel. Planning to use the princess to find her father, Talon traveled to Socorro where the princess was hiding in the Imperial Mission's temple. Arriving on the planet, Talon razed the temple, setting it on fire. However, Vetter prevented the Sith from getting to Princess Fel by engaging Talon in a lightsaber duel in order to give the princess and Astraal Vao enough time to escape the planet. thumb|left|300px|Vetter engaging Darth Talon The duel ended when Vetter lost her left hand and was stabbed through the right leg by Talon, before being kicked off a ledge. Defeated, Vetter told Talon that she could kill her, but the princess had escaped. Talon used the Force to interrogate Vetter, pulling information from her mind. Talon used this information to develop a plan: she would let Marasiah lead her to her father or he would come to save her, and then Talon would kill both. Considering Vetter of no more interest, Talon unleashed a burst of Force lightning, killing the Imperial Knight. While escaping, Princess Fel felt Vetter's death in the Force and instantly wanted revenge. Vao told the princess not to dishonor Vetter's sacrifice, managing to convince the princess that duty came first, and that their duty was to survive. The two then made their escape to the planet Vendaxa. Elke Vetter was a Human with blond hair, blue eyes, and a light skin tone. As an Imperial Knight, Vetter was loyal to Emperor Fel&mdash;whom she considered to be the true Emperor&mdash;above all else. She lived her life in the Empire's service, and was willing to give her life for it. When Talon ambushed the temple on Socorro, Vetter sacrificed herself to ensure Princess Marasiah Fel could escape&mdash;her final act of service to the Empire. During Talon's interrogation, Vetter was unable to prevent the Sith from breaking her will and pulling information from her mind, which Talon would use in her plan to kill Roan Fel. An Imperial Knight, Elke Vetter was Force-sensitive and was trained in the arts of lightsaber combat. She wielded a silver-bladed lightsaber in battle, with the standard Imperial Knight hilt. However, despite her knowledge of lightsaber combat, she was unable to defeat Darth Talon in battle. Elke Vetter made her first appearance in the second issue of the Star Wars: Legacy comic book series, Broken, Part 2, released in July 2006. The issue was written by John Ostrander and Jan Duursema, as well as being penciled by Duursema. *Legacy (2006) 2 *Legacy (2006) 3 *Legacy (2006) 5 *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia *Legacy Era Campaign Guide Category:Humans Category:Imperial Knights Category:Individuals of unspecified gender Category:Individuals with she/her pronouns Category:Personnel of the Empire-in-exile Category:Personnel of the Fel Empire