89776
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Vedd_Deviss
Vedd Deviss
6021

Vedd Deviss was a pilot born in the swamps of Naboo. He was a merchant and knew the backcountry of Naboo extremely well. As an exceptional guide, he could find reclusive smugglers, concealed hideouts, and secret bases. He was a resourceful and encouraging ally of the Royal Naboo Security Forces during the Invasion of Naboo in 32 BBY, flying with Bravo Flight pilot Gavyn Sykes. thumb|left|200px|Deviss strafing a shield generator At the time of the Invasion of Naboo in 32 BBY, Vedd Deviss was a police officer in his home village in the swamps of Naboo. Directly after the invasion, the Trade Federation began attacking villages to subdue resistance. Two Security Force pilots destroyed the Federation droids which were attacking his village. The village elder, Rohan Wayside, suggested they meet Deviss. Deviss joined the two pilots in his personal N-X Police Cruiser. Deviss knew they could find a smuggler, Borvo the Hutt, in the mountains. They found the smuggler's transport and escorted it past attacking Federation tanks. After protecting the smuggler's base, Borvo gave the pilots new starfighters, and they launched an offensive against the Trade Federation Droid Army. When Deviss' wingmate Gavyn Sykes stole a gunboat to aid in liberating Federation slave camps, Deviss held back until he could proceed. After Sykes disabled the camp's anti-air defenses, Deviss strafed a deflector shield generator and freed the rest of the prisoners. Borvo sent in transports to pick up the prisoners. The next day, after Sykes escorted more prisoners up the Andrevea River, their flight leader Captain Kael was shot down. Deviss joined in the search, although it was his wingman Lutin Hollis who ultimately located the captain's downed N-1 starfighter. With his dying breath, Kael informed the crew that Borvo had betrayed them and was going to sell the prisoners. Sykes swore revenge against the Hutt. Flanking the Hutt's position on Porso Hill, Vedd and Hollis held off opposing starfighters while Sykes engaged the mothership, destroying it. The pilots then joined with the mercenary Kol Kotha to liberate another prisoner camp. Flying under the cover of darkness, the pilots infiltrated the valley where Camp Four was located. Hollis rashly gave away their position, but the pilots fought off the Federation droid starfighters. Deviss flew top-cover as Sykes freed the prisoners on the ground. Deviss was a capable pilot and flew a variety of craft. After spending much time in the wilderness of Naboo in his position of police officer, Deviss became knowledgeable of smugglers in the area. He was overly enthusiastic, evidenced by his cheer when he strafed the Trade Federation slave camps. He was an excellent guide, able to locate hidden recluses. He was also resourceful and encouraging. In the 2000 video game Star Wars: Episode I: Battle for Naboo, Vedd Deviss was voiced by Peter Van Schaik. In 2001 Deviss was mentioned in the video game Star Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds as one of the leaders for an AI player controlling the Royal Naboo faction in the standard game mode.Star Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds *Star Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds *Star Wars: Episode I: Battle for Naboo Category:Individuals of unspecified species Category:Males Category:Merchants Category:Naboo Category:Naboo Royal Space Fighter Corp Category:Pilots Category:Police Category:Resistance fighters Category:Royal Naboo Security Force officers