90736
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Talon_(Imperial_corvette)
Talon (Imperial corvette)
6099

}} Talon was a CR90 corvette that served in the Imperial Navy during the Galactic Civil War. Talon was an Imperial Navy CR90 corvette. Around 0 BBY, the Galactic Empire was taking precautions to make Talon look unimportant. Executor Darth Vader himself was known to be on the move, and Alliance Intelligence believed that he may, possibly, have been onboard. The Talon was traveling to Celanon City a skeleton crew and with a minimal escort, and was scheduled to be making a brief stop near Turkana. At the time, the Talon was carrying a contingent of stormtroopers and the top secret Imperial document, Technical Specifications: Spacecraft of the Imperium and the Rebel Alliance, detailing specifications of both Imperial and Rebel spacecraft. thumb|left|Talon comes under attack from Rebel forces. The Rebel Alliance put together a strike force to attack the ship. The attack was led by the Nebulon-B frigate Liberator, supported by X-wings from Red and Blue Squadrons and Y-wings from Gold Squadron. Involved in the attack were Captain Charger and Cadet Keyan Farlander, flying his first mission as wingman to Lieutenant Hamo Blastwell in Red Squadron. thumb|Farlander boarding the Talon When the Talon was attacked, its defending TIE Fighters were engaged by Blue Squadron, and Talon was disabled by the Y-wings' ion cannons. The ship was then boarded by the Rebel's Storm Unit. Once aboard, they needed an extra R2 unit, and Storm Unit asked if any pilots had one to spare. The Talon contingent of stormtroopers fought against Storm Unit while Farlander and his R2 unit worked their way to the bridge. Once there, he deactivated the remaining turbolaser batteries and began downloading data from the ship's computer. The Talon's commanding officer attempted to destroy information disks, but was killed and his disks were taken by Farlander. Before more Imperial reinforcements arrived, the Rebel forces then abandoned the Talon. Although Vader had not been aboard, the documents Farlander had recovered proved to contain important information. The documents provided the Rebels with insight into the Imperial's strengths and weaknesses. The Rebels later ported a simplified version of the mission to a holosimulator for training for young pilots. The Talon appears in the video game Star Wars: X-Wing. *Star Wars: X-Wing *X-Wing: The Official Strategy Guide *X-Wing Collector's CD-ROM: The Official Strategy Guide |cards= }} *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:CR90 corvettes Category:Starships of the Galactic Empire