91086
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Patrol_341
Patrol 341
4444

thumb|Patrol 341's [[Speeder bike/Legends|speeder bikes under fire from Jan Ors.]] Patrol Zulu, Able, Mary 341 was part of Jerec's battle group in 5 ABY that secured the planet Ruusan. It was commanded by Imperial Lieutenant Aagon The patrol consisted of skimmer Zeta 19, commanded by Lieutenant Aagon and manned by a squad of stormtroopers, helmsman Sergeant Forley and gunner Leeno. It was escorted by two speeder bikes.Dark Forces: Jedi Knight Shortly after the Battle of Fort Nowhere, and while Jerec was quest for the Valley of the Jedi|looking for the Valley of the Jedi, the group was assigned to patrol an area of ravines and gullies. Aagon ignored his orders and instead took his patrol ten klicks north; it was a rocky region known to be a gathering of the indigenous Bouncers, allowing his men to hunt the natives to remedy the monotony of patrol. However they didn't know that a group of outlaw settlers who fled from Fort Nowhere where also there, attempting to contact the natives, and saw the patrol approaching. Seeing the group of the creatures bouncing in the air, Aagon shouted excitedly, beggining the hunt.Dark Forces: Jedi Knight audio drama The two bikes's fired, breaking a rock pile and then split east and west; the group of bouncers felt doomed and turned inward expecting inevitable the skimmer to slaughter them. In the meantime, the colonists's group saw their actions, and Jan Ors, enraged, decided to save the defenseless creatures. Ors managed a shot against one of the bikes with her blaster rifle, surprising the patrol. Aagon realised that Rebels were behind the rocks, and landed the skimmer; as the troops hid behind some rocks and pressed forward with six troopers, the skimmer pinned down the Rebels from behind. The skimmer's fire managed to kill at least one Rebel. The remaining bike was neutralized after a ruse by Ors and young Portia. The column eventually was attacked from behind by the group led by Katarn, starting with RW957. Forley and Leeno, left alone, were attacked by the bouncers. The remaining night, the Rebels buried the dead and camouflaged their locations in order to not leave any trace. All equipment they found they loaded in the skimmer, which was appropriated by Grif Grawley. Without returning and without responding to radio, the Imperial forces of Ruusan sent probe droids and four low-altitude craft in standard patten without discovering any traces. Jerec wanted to know what happened. Almost fourty-two hours after their expected return Sariss assigned Yun to go out to the badlands and use his brains to determine what happened. The patrol and the skirmish are mentioned in the novella Dark Forces: Jedi Knight and later Dark Forces: Jedi Knight audio drama. The designation of the patrol is initially unnamed. The skirmish is a bit different between the two appearances. In the novella the vehicle seems to be an open skimmer; only one bike is shot at the start of the skirmish, whereas the Rebels attack the squad of Stormtroopers stealthily. In the audio adaptation, the vehicle is an "armed patrol craft" called Zeta One Nine and suggested to be an enclosed vehicle; both bikers are shot in the beginning of the skirmish, and later Katarn surprises the Stormtroopers, massacring them all with his lightsaber. *Dark Forces: Jedi Knight Category:Imperial Army squads