91846
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Vitor_Reige
Vitor Reige
5419

Vitor Reige was a male human became the first democratically-elected Head of State of the Imperial Remnant and had served as an admiral in the Imperial Navy, and had been a shuttle pilot for the Jagged Fel during the Yuuzhan Vong War. Reige become Head of State after Fel dropped out of a three-way contest with Natasi Daala. During the Battle of Bastion, which occurred during the latter half of the Yuuzhan Vong War, it was Vitor who flew the shuttle that bore the grievously injured Grand Admiral Gilad Pellaeon from Bastion to Yaga Minor. He accompanied the Grand Admiral aboard the Widowmaker, and refused to have his own wounds tended to until the Grand Admiral was stabilized by the Jedi healer, Tekli. Reige was Pellaeon's top aide at the Second Battle of Fondor in 41 ABY and had been serving him faithfully for years. When Pellaeon was murdered by Tahiri Veila, Reige led a mutiny against the Moffs who had taken over Pellaeon's flagship, the Bloodfin, holding out long enough to be rescued by Mandalorian forces.Legacy of the Force: Revelation In 44 ABY Reige, now an Admiral, commanded the Bloodfin against Natasi Daala during the Battle over Exodo II. When Daala, with the help of Abeloth posing as Lydea Pagorski, shortly later managed to make Fel agree to a democratic election for the post of Imperial Head of State, Fel convinced Reige to enter the contest as a spoiler candidate to split the military vote. After Fel ordered a strike on Daala's campaign headquarter - the same laboratory in which Tol Getelles developed his youth serum from drochs and the scientists who developed the nanovirus that prevented Boba Fett from returning to Mandalore - public opinion rose against Fel but he anticipated Daala's attempt to discredit him for his actions and instead chose to drop out of the race and endorsed Reige, who beat Daala easily. Reige then gave the former Head of State the yacht Parting Gift as a farewell present.Fate of the Jedi: Apocalypse In the Star Wars: Legacy of the Force novel, Legacy of the Force: Revelation, it's implied that Pellaeon may have fathered Vitor Reige with an unidentified woman, though Pellaeon never confirmed Reige's ancestry. This would be supported in the Fate of the Jedi novel Fate of the Jedi: Ascension, when Admiral Daala believes that Reige sounds like a younger Pellaeon. *The New Jedi Order: Force Heretic I: Remnant *Legacy of the Force: Revelation *Legacy of the Force: Invincible *Fate of the Jedi: Ascension *Fate of the Jedi: Apocalypse *X-Wing: Mercy Kill *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Clerical workers and assistants Category:Heads of state of the Imperial Remnant Category:Humans Category:Imperial Navy admirals of the Imperial Remnant Category:Imperial Navy officers of the Imperial Remnant Category:Imperial Navy pilots of the Imperial Remnant Category:Individuals with he/him pronouns Category:Males