92113
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/E-5_battle_droid
E-5 battle droid
5474

The E-5 battle droid was a model of battle droid manufactured by Baktoid Combat Automata. Based on the E4 baron droid, it was an interim successor to the B1-series battle droid and was quickly made obsolete by the B2 super battle droid. Tall and thin, the E-5 battle droid was based on the design of the E4 baron droid. Featuring armor heavier than that of the B1-series battle droid, they were equipped with individual intelligence matrices,The New Essential Guide to Droids allowing them to operate independently of a Central Control Computer. However, their lack of intelligence was their greatest weakness, and an E-5's limited verbobrain was said to be as slow as that of any droid tank. After the Trade Federation's defeat at the Battle of Naboo in the year 32 BBY,The New Essential Chronology the E-5 was secretly designed and manufactured by Baktoid Combat Automata as an interim successor to the B1 battle droid. As a temporary measure, they were produced in small numbers while the Trade Federation developed the B2 super battle droid, quickly rendering the E-5 obsolete. In the years prior to the Separatist Crisis, a contingent of E-5 battle droids, alongside several B1s and Republic troopers would serve aboard the Captor-class heavy munitions cruiser, Admiral Korvin, in 29 BBY as a part of the Republic Outland Regions Security Force under the joint command of Raith Sinear and Commander Wilhuff Tarkin. These E-5 battle droids would be deployed by the Republic to the living planet Zonama Sekot, which had began producing strange living starfighters after both it and a single Jedi Knight were attacked by an unknown entity. In response, Tarkin and Sinear's force would attack the living planet, only for the planet retreat into the Unknown Regions after their task force was encountered by Jedi Knight Obi-Wan Kenobi and his padawan learner, Anakin Skywalker. *Rogue Planet *Rogue Planet abridged audiobook *The New Essential Guide to Droids *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:B-series battle droid models Category:Baktoid Combat Automata products Category:Droid models of the Galactic Republic Category:Droid models of the Trade Federation