92312
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Airsquid
Airsquid
5075

|language= }} The airsquid was a type of floating squid that lived in the atmosphere of the Outer Rim Territories gas giant Bespin. Possessing a gasbag body, two wings, and eighteen adhesive tongues, airsquids commonly attached themselves to the large, floating beldon creatures in order to reach clouds of airborne algae on which to feed. Airsquids could also form swarms to prey on larger creatures. At some point, a population of airsquids overran Bespin's abandoned Tibannopolis floating settlement. The airsquid was a species of small squid that resided in the atmosphere of the gas giant&ndash;type planet Bespin of the Outer Rim Territories' Anoat sector. It had a buoyant, black gasbag body, a pair of short wings, and a mouth with sharp teeth and a web of eighteen ribbon-like, adhesive tongues. Airsquids possessed a measure of resilience to mind-influencing effects. Airsquids frequently attached themselves to beldons, floating, spherical-gasbag herd creatures measuring seven kilometers in diameter on average that fed on airborne algae.Galaxy Guide 2: Yavin and Bespin, Second Edition Resembling groups of barnacles in that state, airsquids used the beldons as transportation in order to reach clouds of algae, which they consumed by trapping them in their webs of tongues. Hunger could also drive the predatory airsquids to form swarms in order to overwhelm larger prey. thumb|right|250px|Tibannopolis was home to a colony of airsquids. At some point after the abandonment of the Tibannopolis floating platform following the Battle of Geonosis of 22 BBY,The New Essential Chronology a colony of hundreds of airsquids overran the settlement. The creatures established at least seven nests there, including in the former business and residential districts. The Baron Administrator of Bespin's Cloud City settlement at one point hired a group of individuals to eliminate the base on Tibannopolis that the Cloud City&ndash;based crime lord Sawthawne was using to launch raids against the planet's tibanna gas refineries. To that end, the group attempted to sabotage Tibannopolis's repulsorlift generators in order to send the platform toppling down into Bespin's atmosphere; however, the local airsquid population posed a challenge to their efforts. The airsquid was first mentioned in the 2004 Wizards of the Coast Star Wars Roleplaying Game sourcebook Geonosis and the Outer Rim Worlds. The book contains a roleplaying game adventure seed involving airsquids that this article assumes plays out as described. *Geonosis and the Outer Rim Worlds *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Creatures of Bespin Category:Flying creatures Category:Non-sentient species Category:Predatory creatures Category:Squids