92349
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/High_Orbit_Precision_Entry_Squad
High Orbit Precision Entry Squad
3942

**Special Operations BrigadeGuide to the Grand Army of the Republic states that all clone commandos were part of the Special Operations Brigade. }} }} H.O.P.E. (High Orbit Precision Entry) Squad was a four man squad of specialized clone commandos used by the Galactic Republic during the Clone Wars. They wore Katarn commando armor painted in various color schemes and could be deployed in specialized escape pods from an Acclamator-class assault ship. They acted on orders received from the Jedi Council. During the Clone Wars, the Jedi Council tasked H.O.P.E. with aiding Jedi Master Treetower on Yorn Skot, where the Jedi was attempting to free Ugnaught slaves being smuggled to the Trade Federation. Treetower had been attacked and knocked off a platform, but his robes caught on a unipod at the bottom of the platform. H.O.P.E. Squad was dispatched shortly afterwards from an Acclamator-class assault ship, deploying with escape pods and Combat Umbrellas. The platform was guarded by two spider droids, but both were dispatched by the commandos. When the squad attempted to rappel down the platform's side, all of them except for the squad leader were killed. The mission, however, ended in success. With the stress of the war affecting citizens in 19 BBY, H.O.P.E. Squad acted as a police force in a riot against the Jedi on the planet of Coruscant, a central hub of the Galactic Republic and home to the Jedi Temple. With many riots and uprisings occurring on the planet during the Clone Wars, H.O.P.E. Squad was called upon to restore order to the affected areas and to ensure the safety of the Jedi because the Temple Guard was spread thin. Despite the challenging circumstances, the squad's specialized skills and training allowed the commandos to successfully complete their mission. In many instances H.O.P.E. worked in co-operation with Coruscant Police and Coruscant Guard forces to arrest and bring justice upon local Anti-Jedi terrorists. thumb|250px|H.O.P.E. Squad inserting on [[Yorn Skot via escape pods.]] *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Galactic Republic commando squads