92471
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/R-TechApp_Man_Trap
R-TechApp Man Trap
5024

The R-TechApp Man Trap was a reversed repulsorfield manufactured by Ubrikkian Transports. Advertised as a safe, non-lethal way to subdue a fleeing target, the R-TechApp Man Trap was a device developed by Ubrikkian Transports. It was a one-meter square metal plate that stood barely five centimeters tall. The power cells could provide charge for up to three hours of operation. The R-TechApp had a remote activator that came with a 10-meter cord. Cords with varying lengths could be purchased and used to allow the operator to be hidden further away. The device was rigged with gravfield generators that could intensify the local gravity of a planet by a factor of eight. In normal operation, the gravfield generators were powered up. However, the operator could leave the generators inert and only activate them at the exact instant a target stepped over the device. When an individual walked over the trap, the extra gravities pulled down and immobilized by the increased weight of their own mass. Targets could then be stunned, tranquilized, or interrogated. Calibrating the R-TechApp on a standard one-gravity planet, it required four to five extra gravities to restrain a Human. However, this would not stop a Wookiee. A full setting of eight gravities would hold a Wookiee, but would crush a Mrissi's bones. Setting up the R-TechApp Man Trap was extremely easy; it was placed flat on the ground then covered with topsoil, leaves, or other foliage to camouflage it. Infrared bafflers were used to mask the trap's heat emissions, specifically from species capable of seeing in the infrared spectrum. The R-TechApp model had a number of detrimental side effects, however. Although designed to be nonlethal, sprains, dislocations and broken bones were common as targets could fall at odd angles and have their increased mass cause an injury. A pinned subject's heart and lungs often struggled due to the heavy gravity, while vital fluids that were forced through grav-compressed passages could burst from the strain. Blood would pool in abdominal organs, which would cause the brain to starve from lack of oxygen. If the subject was not freed from the man trap, cardiac arrest was a likely outcome. Bounty hunters who didn't frequently check their man traps often found a dead mark when they returned. The R-TechApp Man Trap was favored by slavers and bounty hunters due to its ability to capture a target undamaged for live delivery. The units could also be integrated into security systems, when they could be used to stop intruders and effectively block entire corridors. The Krish business magnate Tyro Viveca had a R-TechApp hidden on the grounds of his estate, which he used during his hunting excursions. In 0 ABY, the thief Cecil Noone was caught in one and barely managed to survive. *SkyeWalkers: A Clone Wars Story *Galaxy Guide 10: Bounty Hunters *Gundark's Fantastic Technology: Personal Gear *The Essential Guide to Weapons and Technology *The Bounty Hunter Code: From the Files of Boba Fett Category:Gravitational weaponry Category:Security weaponry Category:Ubrikkian Transports products