93092
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/GeNode
GeNode
9924

}} A GeNode was an genetically engineered life form through the process by modified Arkanian cloning technology. These specimens were drawn from at least three physically distinct genetic templates and were intended to be a new wave of stormtroopers for the Galactic Empire during its early reign and developed individual personalities, but they were characterized by a conditioned lack of awareness of their own nature as artificial life forms and lack of ability to communicate with fellow GeNodes on the subject of genetic engineering, setting them apart from the clone stormtroopers. After the rise of the Galactic Empire in 19 BBY, the GeNode program was began by its Stormtrooper Corps during its first years before genetical engineering fell out of favor due to the instability of their conditioning and possible incite of the artificial soldiers to a violent rage, with their clone brethren as targets. thumb|left|250px|At one time, nearly half of all stormtroopers were reputedly genetically engineered. Unlike the clone troopers modeled on prime clone Jango Fett and fielded by the Galactic Republic during the Clone Wars, the soldiers known as GeNodes were unaware that they were clones. Conditioned with an inability to discuss their genetical enhancement with others, great resilience, and unflinching obedience,The Essential Guide to Warfare GeNodes developed distinct personalities and varying degrees of military competence but nonetheless did not leave service. The conditioning blinding GeNodes to their biotech status, even when looking and communicating with others of the same template, was not always successful, and its failure yielded disastrous results; soldiers suddenly found themselves surrounded by identical impostors sharing their face and would turn on their fellow clones in fits of fearful rage. One early GeNode clone line, part of the first generation of genetically enhanced marines, had harsh faces and temperaments and black hair. Later templates included a strongly built batch with deep blue eyes and thick blonde hair and a set of clones with wiry builds and small bones, ideally suited to serve as speeder bike&ndash;mounted scouts. thumb|right|150px|The Arkanians produced the cloning methods that were the basis of GeNode technology. GeNode bioengineering was developed as a refinement of clone techniques employed by the Arkanians, who were known for their endeavors in genetic science. During the Clone Wars, the terrorist and master geneticist Zeta Magnus, himself the product of Arkanian experimentation, held control over an accelerated GeNode facility onSkyeWalkers: A Clone Wars Story the planetThe Essential Atlas Dantooine in 22 BBY.SkyeWalkers: A Clone Wars Story takes place between and the Star Wars: The Clone Wars film, both of which The Essential Reader's Companion dates to 22 BBY. GeNode soldiers were fielded by the Galactic Empire following its establishment in 19 BBY. Before 0 BBY,According to The Essential Reader's Companion, "Pax Empirica—The Wookiee Annihilation" takes place before , which the book dates to 0 BBY. production of the dark-haired first generation template had long been discontinued, though some of these GeNodes continued to serve, including three sergeants&mdash;Tak Bazierre, Dalia, and Oswald Strepp&mdash;in Imperial Captain Janzor's platoon. By this point, the light-haired template, exemplified by Corporal Milo Strander and Private Sterns Yennich, accounted for forty percent of the Imperial Stormtrooper Corps. Strander, unknowingly a GeNode himself, viewed the clones with disdain. However, GeNode genetically enhanced life forms fell out of favor with the Imperial Military due to the instability resulting from the failure of their conditioning, and recruited humans came to dominate the stormtroopers' ranks. }} thumb|right|250px|"Pax Empirica" introduced GeNodes in the pages of the strategy guide. GeNodes first appeared in "Pax Empirica—The Wookiee Annihilation," a short story by Steven L. Kent published in Star Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds: Prima's Official Strategy Guide in 2001, prior to the release of the 2002 prequel trilogy film, Star Wars: Episode II Attack of the Clones. "Pax Empirica" references the presence of clones&mdash;the GeNodes&mdash;in the ranks of the Empire's stormtroopers, unusually for a story published prior to the introduction of that film's clone army,The Essential Reader's Companion portrayed subsequently as sharing a single genetic template and being aware of their common nature. Jason Fry, co-author of 2012's The Essential Guide to Warfare, found the story's depiction of clones at odds with such later revelations and therefore worked to downplay the presence of GeNodes in the Stormtrooper Corps in the Essential Guide. An editorial footnote submitted to Lucasfilm by Abel G. Peña with his novella SkyeWalkers: A Clone Wars Story identifies the GeNode chamber mentioned in that work as the cloning facility depicted in Galaxy of Fear: Clones, a 1998 juvenile novel written by John Whitman, but the connection is not apparent in the text as published in 2015. *SkyeWalkers: A Clone Wars Story *The Essential Guide to Warfare *The Essential Reader's Companion Category:Biotechnology Category:Clones