93187
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Mission_to_Kashyyyk_(Clone_Wars)
Mission to Kashyyyk (Clone Wars)
8220

The Mission to Kashyyyk was a rescue operation carried out by the commandos of the Republic's elite Delta Squad which led directly to the Battle of Kashyyyk. It was executed through several operations, the first of which, called Operation Furball, was to rescue the Wookiee chieftain Tarfful. This was followed by Operation Intervene, whose objective was to destroy Separatist supplies and bases. After this, Delta Squad's objective in Operation Forest Fire was to destroy the Kachirho Bridge to stop the Separatist advance. However, all of these missions were almost completed in vain when a Recusant-class light destroyer started to unload waves of troops. Operation Gauntlet was Delta Squad's final operation on Kashyyyk, with the destruction of the ship through the commandeering of several Wookiee dual missile turrets being the objective.Star Wars: Republic Commando: Prima Official Game Guide The commandos, led by Jedi General Etain Tur-Mukan and Boss, infiltrated a Trandoshan mercenary camp in order to rescue the Wookiee Chieftain Tarfful. The commandos successfully rescued Tarfful from several of General Grievous's bodyguard droids, as well as obtaining intelligence about the Confederacy's alliance with the Trandoshan mercenaries. Delta Squad also found out the number of hostiles on Kashyyyk, which was more than the Republic High Command had thought. The squad then sabotaged the Trandoshans' outpost on Kashyyyk, destroying two of their landing pads. When the Confederacy launched their full-scale invasion of the Wookiee tree-city of Kachirho, Delta Squad was the only Grand Army of the Republic unit planetside capable of assisting in the defense. Delta Squad sabotaged a bridge connecting the two sides of Kachirho, stopping the Confederacy's advance. The commandos also secured vital munitions and ordnance depots for the Wookiees, allowing them to sufficiently arm themselves to fight against the Confederacy. thumb|left|150px Their final operation was the destruction of a Recusant-class light destroyer attempting to land more battle droids onto the surface. Following the destruction of the cruiser, Sev, the team's sniper specialist, was lost, presumed MIA, but orders that came directly from Grand Master Yoda forced Delta Squad to abandon Sev. Delta Squad was then extracted and redeployed as the Republic invasion force arrived, and the Battle of Kashyyyk was joined. Star Wars: Republic Commando shows the date of this mission as 785 days, or roughly two years, after the Battle of Geonosis. However, Ryan Kaufman, one of the lead writers of Republic Commando, has stated that this date was a developmental oversight and that the mission was meant to take place days before the Battle of Kashyyyk depicted in Star Wars: Episode III Revenge of the Sith, dated to 19 BBY.The Essential Reader's Companion *Star Wars: Republic Commando *Order 66: A Republic Commando Novel *Star Wars: Revenge of the Sith: The Visual Dictionary *Star Wars: The Complete Visual Dictionary *Star Wars Character Encyclopedia Category:Battles of Kashyyyk Category:Missions of the Clone Wars Category:Rescue missions