93266
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Utility_trawler
Utility trawler
4524

*Wookiees *Gungans *Trade Federation *Royal Naboo Security Forces *Galactic RepublicStar Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds: Clone Campaigns *Confederacy of Independent Systems *Galactic Empire *Rebel Alliance }} Utility trawlers were unarmed aquatic repulsorcraft designed and utilized for fishing and aquaculture harvesting, and generally had one pilot. They were equipped with powerful loading arms for deploying and retrieving fishing nets and were capable of hauling immense loads of fish, algae, kelp, or krill in their open hulls. Though simple and utilitarian in appearance, they varied widely from culture to culture, from the boxy design favored by the Rebel Alliance to the smooth yellow curves of the Naboo. The 222 fishing trawler was an example of a common utility trawler, and many were acquired for use at the city of Bartyn's Landing. The Wookiees, Gungans, Trade Federation, Naboo, Galactic Republic, and the Confederacy of Independent Systems all had their own versions of the utility trawler in the waning years of the Republic, as did the Rebel Alliance and Galactic Empire during the Galactic Civil War. 222 fishing trawlers were first mentioned in Reckonings, in an article in the 2001 magazine Star Wars Gamer 7. Utility trawlers in general first appeared in the 2001 video game Star Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds and later in its 2002 expansion pack. They were built at shipyards for 75 units of food and 10 units of nova crystals. TradeFederationTrawler.jpg| A Trade Federation utility trawler. ImperialTrawler.jpg| An Imperial utility trawler. *Star Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds *Star Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds: Clone Campaigns *Star Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds: Prima's Official Strategy Guide Category:Aquatic repulsorcraft models Category:Fishing Category:Gungan vehicle classes Category:Naboo vehicle classes Category:Vehicle classes of the Alliance to Restore the Republic Category:Vehicle classes of the Confederacy of Independent Systems Category:Vehicle classes of the Galactic Empire Category:Vehicle classes of the Galactic Republic Category:Vehicle classes of the Trade Federation Category:Wookiee vehicle classes