93439
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/CL-3_antistarfighter_cluster_bomb
CL-3 antistarfighter cluster bomb
3490

The CL-3 antistarfighter cluster bomb was an anti-starfighter weapon manufactured by FreiTek Incorporated. A type of cluster bomb, the weapon was employed by the Rebel Alliance and later the New Republic. Disguised to blend in with a vessel's superstructure, the CL-3 released a burst of shrapnel in the initial detonation, followed by a cloud of magnetized grenades. The CL-3 antistarfighter cluster bomb, manufactured by FreiTek Incorporated, was an ovoid blister mounted to the hull of a starship, typically the Mon Calamari Star Cruiser. Designed to blend in with the vessel's superstructure, disguised as standard weapons emplacements, sensor array blisters, and cargo modules, the CL-3 targeted enemy starfighter formations that flew past the vessel during combat, exploding and destroying them in a surprise explosive detonation.The New Essential Guide to Weapons and Technology The CL-3 consisted of an outer blister shell that covered an internal space filled with dozens of magnetized proton and concussion grenades. When triggered, explosive charges reduced the outer blister shell to shrapnel which was then propelled out into space alongside the payload of magnetized grenades. The debris field of shrapnel and deadly grenades spread over an area of about one hundred meters in diameter; enemy starfighters caught in the field were hit by the shrapnel and the grenades that were attracted to their hulls. The host ship was protected from the explosion of the CL-3 by explosive dampeners at the base of the cluster bomb. The grenades themselves, while effective against starfighters were not powerful enough to pierce the armor of a capital ship. Maintenance crews were capable of replacing cluster bombs in less than ten minutes. *The Essential Guide to Weapons and Technology *The New Essential Guide to Weapons and Technology Category:Bombs Category:Fragmentation demolitions Category:FreiTek, Inc products