93563
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Battle_of_Otoh_Sancture
Battle of Otoh Sancture
8862

During a war between the Gungan tribes on the planet Naboo in 3000 BBY, a battle was fought on the ruins of the city Otoh Sancture between the Militiagungs under the command of Boss Gallo and bursas under the influence of Boss Rogoe. Gallo had previously refused to take sides in the long-raging war, leading Rogoe, the war's secret mastermind, to order the destruction of Gallo's home Otoh Sancture. Gallo escaped the destruction and vowed to avenge his home while rebuilding it. He assembled an army in a nearby forest with which he slaughtered the bursas and destroyed their nests. In the aftermath of the battle, Gallo united with the rogue Captain Marsune, and together the pair united the other Gungan tribes against Rogoe, who was eventually killed at the Raid on Spearhead. During the planet Naboo's war between the Gungan tribes in 3000 BBY, Boss Gallo of the city Otoh Sancture was the only boss to remain neutral, as he refused to take up arms against his fellow Gungangs. Gallo's power was considerable, and Boss Rogoe of Spearhead, the mastermind behind the war who was believed to be dead or a myth by the rest of the Gungan community, decided that it would be prudent to eliminate Gallo before he had the chance to align himself, and so he ordered the death of his fellow boss. thumb|right|280px|The destruction of Otoh Sancture. On the day of Otoh Sancture's Sacred Feast, Rogoe had his militiagungs dispatch wild bursas to attack the defenseless city. As per tradition, Gallo had ventured forth from the settlement to gather food for the Sacred Feast, and as a result, he was not present when the bursas attacked. The creatures left no building standing nor any civilian alive in their wake, turning Otoh Sancture into a desolate wasteland. thumb|left|260px|Gallo meets with Marsune Gallo saw the destruction and fled north into the forest atop his kaadu with the five nerfs he had gathered for the feast in tow. On his journey, he came across the base of the rogue Captain Marsune, and his gang. Gallo requested aid, but the captain refused and laughed at him, although he did exchange four worker glurrgs in exchange for the nerfs Gallo had found. Continuing through the swamp with his new acquisitions, Gallo spotted several militiagungs from Spearhead shepherding wild bursas and confronted them, leading one of them to reveal that Rogoe was responsible. Outraged, Gallo resolved to wreak revenge on Rogoe for the massacre and told the militiagungs of his intent before continuing on with his glurrgs. Coming to a clearing that boasted resources such as nova crystals and ore, Gallo decided that he would rebuild Otoh Sancture in memory of his dead people. He began with a command center, with which he could summon more glurrgs who could build prefab shelters to support an army of Gungan recruits with which to retake Otoh Sancture's ruins. thumb|right|200px|The Gungans fight the bursas at the entrance to Otoh Sancture With ten militiagungs and twenty kaadu mounted troopers, Gallo crossed a river into Otoh Sancture. They encountered several bursas, which they fought and killed. The path to the ruins of Otoh Sancture was blocked by several of the bursas' nests, which Gallo and his soldiers razed. With the entrance breached, they fought the remaining bursas in Otoh Sancture and destroyed all of their nests. Marsune arrived at Otoh Sancture and revealed that he had a change of heart and wished to join Gallo's quest to defeat Rogoe. Working together, Gallo and Marsune were able to unite the other Gungan tribes against Rogoe, including Otoh Jahai, Otoh Langua, Otoh Raban, and Otoh Urs. The united Bosses killed Rogoe at the Raid on Spearhead, and Gallo founded a new capital called Otoh Gunga on the ruins of Spearhead. Some three thousand years later, the events of the war were chronicled by Boss Rugor Nass, a distant descendant of Gallo's. The battle of Otoh Sancture was first mentioned in Star Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds: Prima's Official Strategy Guide by Steven L. Kent,Star Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds: Prima's Official Strategy Guide&mdash;released on November 7, 2001&mdash;before appearing in the LucasArts video game Star Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds, released on November 11, 2001. In the game, it appears in the first level of the Gungan campaign; "Otoh Sancture," where the player controls Gallo and carries out the attack on the bursas. *Star Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds *Star Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds: Clone Campaigns *Star Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds: Prima's Official Strategy Guide Category:Battles of the War of the Gungan Tribes