93615
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Urai_Fen
Urai Fen
7779

Urai Fen was a Force-sensitive male Talortai who served as lieutenant of the Zann Consortium and its crime lord Tyber Zann's loyal bodyguard. thumb|left|180px|Urai Fen had lived since the New Sith Wars. A member of the mysterious avian Talortai species, Fen served an important role in Zann's conquest and was old enough to have lived through one of the Sith Wars. He was the only person Zann trusted to handle a Sith holocron stolen from Jabba the Hutt, right before Zann's capture. Concerned for the survival of the Consortium, Fen contacted unknown allies on Kamino. They were willing to harbor the remnants of the Consortium, so Fen moved his forces from Ryloth and then attacked the Imperial forces on Kamino, defeated them, and laid low until Zann was ready. Urai meanwhile had discovered that the Sith holocron dates back to the Sith Wars, making it over 4,000 years old. He had learned that it was some sort of data storage device, but he also believed it to serve another unknown purpose. Urai then persuaded Han Solo and Chewbacca to come to Kessel and rescue Tyber Zann. After killing a bounty hunter, Urai and Tyber created a prison riot and used the distraction to reach the Millennium Falcon. Urai Fen also took part in the mission to intimidate the Noghri homeworld of Honoghr. Eventually he also took part in the intimidation of Governor Koong Eeth and the Battle of Saleucami, and also scouted out the destroyer droid factory that Jabba the Hutt found on Hypori. Urai accompanied Zann on his quest to find a Force user on Dathomir who could unlock the Sith artifact. Ever wary of the Nightsister Silri who they found, Urai constantly asked if he could kill her as he thought she may harm Tyber. Other known Consortium acts he helped in were stealing tibanna gas from Bespin for Prince Xizor, raiding Emperor Palpatine's vaults on Coruscant, and searching the Eclipse for information on the Emperor's other vaults across the galaxy. The Consortium abandoned the Eclipse shortly thereafter, seeing it as too great a target for the nascent New Republic. thumb|right|200px|Fen, with his characteristic blades. Urai was an ancient and proud warrior, who preferred to simply kill enemies and saw little purpose in mercy, though he also possessed a strong sense of morality. At one time, he advocated for the Zann Consortium to throw its lot in with the Rebel Alliance, seeing them as a potentially powerful ally against the might of the Empire. This was certainly in part due to practical concerns, but Fen was nonetheless evidently motivated by a persistent sense of honor on the battlefield. He believed in the nature of combat as an indicator of personal fortitude, and dismissed those who could not present him an adequate challenge. He was able to cut down multiple troopers at once, using his agile speed. He preferred melee combat and the use of his unique heavy blades over blasters. These blades proved to be sharper and more powerful than most others and could destroy vehicles, as well as decimate infantry. In battle, he and Zann were equipped with personal cloaking devices. He also either had a special sonic device which was able to stun another or possibly, being Force-sensitive, had the ability to stun enemies with the Force (but this is unlikely considering he was observed to use this ability around ysalamiri.) Urai Fen, like many of his race, was sensitive to the Force, although he was not known to manipulate it. Silri, the Nightsister with whom the Consortium had found an erstwhile ally in, frequently butted heads with Zann and Fen, to the degree that the latter offered to kill her should she become a further irritant. This reflected Fen's immense loyalty to Zann despite their differences of character and opinion. The two shared a strong relationship, and were known to be nearly inseparable. Indeed, Zann became somewhat reliant on Fen's skill and expertise, and was aware of his lieutenant's proficiency with his blades to such a degree that even he was wary of irritating the Talortai. Fen's interactions with other elements of the criminal underworld were extensive; at some point, he did something that caused the legendary IG-88 to owe him a favor. In Forces of Corruption, Fen was voiced by veteran Star Wars performer David Anthony Pizzuto. The game manual misspells his name "Urai Fenn". However, the official website and in-game description proves Urai Fen is the correct spelling. *Star Wars: Empire at War: Forces of Corruption *Star Wars: Empire at War: Forces of Corruption Expansion: Prima Official Game Guide *News from the Underworld: Vol. 1, Issue 1 Category:Bodyguards Category:Force-sensitives Category:Individuals with he/him pronouns Category:Males Category:Talortai Category:Zann Consortium members