93707
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Com-scan
Com-scan
5782

thumb|right|250px|[[Toryn Farr/Legends|Toryn Farr using a tool to interface with the com-scan display map]] A com-scan, or comm/scan, was a computer system which controlled and integrated the hundreds of complicated communication and sensor systems, from electro-photo receptors and full-spectrum transceivers to dedicated energy receptors and subspace transceivers, found aboard large capital ships like Imperial Star DestroyersThe Essential Guide to Weapons and Technology (located inside the conning tower's sensor globesInside the Worlds of Star Wars Trilogy) and Mon Calamari Star Cruisers. Com-scans consisted of rows of computer consoles, augmented by both flatscreen monitors and holoprojectors to display data such as fleet movements and battle simulations. The units were staffed by highly skilled communications and sensor officers to evaluate the data, assisted by droids programmed with complex data-sorting algorithms. They decided which data was important enough to pass on to the command staff. Com-scan computers processed and analyzed information from sensor arrays, such as those found aboard capital ships. Starships had a wide range of sensors, including long-range electro photo receptors, full-spectrum transcievers, dedicated energy receptors, and broadband transceivers. The com-scan collated all the data, allowing the operator to potentially detect starships or hidden bases. Readings matching preprogrammed warning conditions activated reserve sensor banks for a more detailed investigation. These conditioned included detecting power fluctuations indicating the presence of a ship, or energy spikes from a power generator hidden by stealth systems. The Rebel Alliance used a com-scan computer during the Battle of Yavin to remotely assist Rebel starfighters when their sensors were jammed by the DS-1 Orbital Battle Station. It was able to identify enemy units during the engagement. The Executor used com-scan systems upon entering the Hoth system to verify the location of Echo Base on the system's sixth planet by detecting a energy shield. During the Battle of Hoth, General Rieekan and his command staff used a MicroThrust Processors OrC-19 com-scan integrator console to monitor Imperial forces and coordinate the ground defense and evacuation efforts. Much smaller com-scan computers, such as the CO-0012, could also be found on military command vehicles, like the LAVr QH-7 Chariot. Both Grand Admiral Thrawn and the reborn Emperor used com-scan computer systems during their respective campaigns to bring down the New Republic. *Rebellion 1 *Introductory Adventure Game *Star Wars: The Empire Strikes Back novelization *Shadows of the Empire 1 *A Guide to the Star Wars Universe *Galaxy Guide 7: Mos Eisley *Star Wars Trilogy Sourcebook, Special Edition *The Essential Guide to Weapons and Technology *Star Wars: Behind the Magic *Inside the Worlds of Star Wars Trilogy *The New Essential Guide to Weapons and Technology *Star Wars: Complete Locations *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Capital ship components Category:Communications sensors Category:Emplacement sensors Category:General purpose sensors Category:Ground vehicle components Category:Starship sensors Category:Vehicle sensors