93896
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Imperial_Station_Bravo
Imperial Station Bravo
4525

Gardulla's palace was the palace and fortress owned by the Hutt crime lord Gardulla the Elder on the planet Tatooine during the last decades of the Old Republic. More than a century later, the palace became Imperial Station Bravo of Darth Krayt's Galactic Empire. The palace had a few floors to it, with a giant arena for Gardulla's canyon krayt dragon. It was populated by Gamorreans, Weequay, Trandoshans, Nikto and other unpleasant crooks and creeps. She kept her little slave community right in the middle of her palace, in case she needed something.Episode I Adventures 7: Capture Arawynne Her throne room was huge with an opening to go into the arena, to watch horrible deaths to unlucky visitors. The fortress was also home to a lush garden filled with plants, fountains and birds. During the period preceding the Invasion of Naboo, Gardulla enslaved Ghostling children in her palace, including Princess Arawynne, to place them in her personal pleasure garden.Episode I Adventures 5: The Ghostling Children Anakin Skywalker and his friends eventually disguised themselves as Jawas and infiltrated the palace to free the children. Episode I Adventures 6: The Hunt for Anakin Skywalker thumb|left|220px|Imperial Station Bravo In 32 BBY, the bounty hunter Jango Fett traced Gardulla there after he was given the bounty opportunity from Jabba the Hutt, added to the fact that she knew about the Bando Gora. Gardulla caught Jango and tried to feed him to her dragon. He escaped and made it to her throne room. She let her dragon in, in a would-be surprise attack on Jango. Jango took her necktie from her flab, then, after a little talk, sank his hands into her skin and pushed her to the feet of her dragon. She was chomped down by the monster in seconds. More than a century later, Darth Krayt's Galactic Empire established a military base inside the palace and named it Imperial Station Bravo. In 137 ABY, Moff Nieve Gromia used the base as her headquarters when she was tasked to eliminate the pirates preying on Imperial shipments in the area. Moff Gromia employed Gardulla's pleasure garden as a private chamber. *Episode I Adventures 5: The Ghostling Children *Episode I Adventures 6: The Hunt for Anakin Skywalker *Episode I Adventures 7: Capture Arawynne *Episode I Adventures 8: Trouble on Tatooine *"Podracing Tales" *Star Wars: Bounty Hunter *Legacy (2006) 37 *Legacy (2006) 40 *Star Wars: Bounty Hunter: Prima's Official Strategy Guide Category:Darth Krayt's Galactic Empire locations Category:Fortresses Category:Hutt Clan locations Category:Imperial military bases Category:Palaces