93996
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Agonizer-6_nerve_disruptor
Agonizer-6 nerve disruptor
5000

The Agonizer-6 nerve disruptor, known simply as a nerve disruptor, was a small interrogation droid used by the Galactic Empire. The Agonizer-6 nerve disruptor was a small device manufactured by Arakyd Industries in answer to the Galactic Empire's demand for interrogation droids and torture units. The Agonizer-6 was around the size of a Jawa, standing on three adjustable legs, and was controlled by a fully functional Cybot Galactica AI-4 droid brain with a vocabulator, audio sensors, and a dataport for connecting to other droids and computers. The AI-4 droid brain was impersonal and focused on completing its assigned duties. Designed to take a victim to the very brink of their mental and physical limits, the Agonizer-6 began by assessing their current condition including any injuries sustained from previous interrogations. As the victim was questions, the Agonizer-6's droid brain constantly monitored life functions using a life-form analyzer, including heartbeat, respiration, and nerve functions. As the interrogation session progressed, the Agonizer-6 would deploy microfilament injectors to dispense pain and truth drugs in the victim's system. At the same time, stimulators were used to trigger reactions in nerve clusters, causing symptoms ranging from tingling, pain, aches, and spasms, all the way up to inducing altered states of consciousness such as euphoria, fear, bliss, panic, relaxation, and terror. The constant barrage of torture eventually broke down the victim's mental defenses, breaking their will and forcing them to reveal their secrets. Left susceptible to suggestion, the Agonizer-6 could then use hypno-indoctrination and imprinting to brainwash the victim with subconscious and posthypnotic commands. In the event that the brainwashing was discovered, one of the implanted orders was a suicide command. The Agonizer-6 was a result of the Empire's increased need for interrogation and torture units. It was deployed to Imperial prisons and labor camps throughout the galaxy. X-7 was tortured for his failures using various instruments, including a nerve disruptor.Rebel Force: Renegade Jabba the Hutt used a nerve disruptor on Barid Mesoriaam, a Rebel spy. Mesoriaam refused to break under the torture, and managed to pass on a datadot with vital information to the thieves Muftak and Kabe to transport to Alliance High Command. The manufacture of the Agonizer-6 was stopped during the reign of the New Republic. *Kenobi *Rebel Force: Renegade *The Essential Guide to Weapons and Technology *The New Essential Guide to Weapons and Technology *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Arakyd Industries products Category:Droid models of the Galactic Empire Category:Interrogation droid models