94081
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Ral_(creature)
Ral (creature)
3710

Rals, also known as stone rays, were a species of cold-blooded reptavian native to Bothawui. They had two arms and two legs, each with three clawed digits. Their elongated third fingers were connected to their body by leathery flaps of skin, which formed wings. The remaining digits were tipped with small sharp claws.Shadows of the Empire Planets Guide Their small mouths were filled with needle-like teeth and a razor-like beak. Tooth and claw was not their primary method of attack, however: their tails were tipped by a venomous stinger. thumb|left|Rals were known for their bite and for their sting. Having slate-gray skin which mimicked the natural patterns of Bothawui's glitterstone, rals were very difficult to spot when lying on rocks. Rals were cold-blooded, and absorbed the afternoon heat of Both while ambushing. They spent the night in caves. The venum of its sting could lead a humanoid to a feverish coma, and death within a day. While Bothans had limited natural immunity to ral poison, other species were much less resistant. They spent the day ambushing, by sunning themselves on boulders motionless, and waiting for small animals to appear. When their prey touched the ral's wing, the predator would attack with its stinger, and ensnared it by with its wings. When its target was incapacitated by their poison, a ral would entangle its prey in its wings and bite it to death. If threatened by larger animals, including Bothans, rals would repeatedly sting their attacker, using their beak/teeth and claws. While Bothans had limited natural immunity to ral poison, other species were much less resistant. A ral sting could result in a feverish coma, leading to death within a day. Since rals were so well camouflaged, accidental encounters were not uncommon. Most Bothan households kept an antidote for ral stings on hand. *Shadows of the Empire Planets Guide *The Essential Guide to Planets and Moons *Star Wars: Empire at War: Prima Official Game Guide *Star Wars: Empire at War: Forces of Corruption Expansion: Prima Official Game Guide Category:Creatures of Bothawui Category:Ectothermic species Category:Flying creatures Category:Predatory creatures Category:Reptavians Category:Species of undefined sentience Category:Venomous and poisonous creatures