95788
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Carbonite_gun
Carbonite gun
5182

Carbonite guns, also known as carbonite rifles, were weapons that fired a short stream of liquid carbonite that solidified on contact with a target. It was a very formidable weapon capable of immobilizing everything from small infantry such as a stormtrooper to extremely large opponents such as a rancor. They could also be used to disable mechanical devices such as tanks. The carbonite gun appeared quite like an ordinary blaster rifle at first glance. However, unlike the blaster rifle, the gun emitted a deep ion blue blast when fired that could render an enemy immobile and defenseless for a considerable amount of time. During the time the target was immobilized, they could be attacked without a chance for self-defense, or in some cases, simply be smashed by a blow from the weapons' reinforced butt. After a few moments, however, they would thaw, and there was no sign of hibernation sickness. The enemy could easily attack as if nothing had happened. These weapons had a short range but in the right hands could be an extremely effective and fearsome weapon. The Galactic Empire in its reports noted that the weapons made their enemies formidable warriors when wielding these. The gun was originally invented by scientists from the planet Empress Teta; however, the weapon had fallen into the possession of several groups afterward. In 980 BBY, carbonite guns were discussed as a potential method of subduing Darth Bane. The notion was discarded in favor of the senflax provided by Serra. The Huntress indicated that their effects lasted for a few minutes, not a few moments, so these may have been more advanced than what previously existed. The Zann Consortium often equipped their Pyn'gani slaves, who were quite adept with mining carbonite, with these weapons when using them to conquer planets.Star Wars: Empire at War: Forces of Corruption Kyle Katarn and Mara Jade are known to have encountered and perhaps used a carbonite gun during Operation Shadow Hand.Star Wars: Jedi Knight: Mysteries of the Sith In the video games Star Wars: Empire at War and Star Wars: Empire at War: Forces of Corruption, the carbonite gun can only be used by the Pyn'gani. *Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic *Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic II: The Sith Lords *Star Wars: The Old Republic *Darth Bane: Dynasty of Evil *Star Wars Battlefront: Elite Squadron *Star Wars: Empire at War *Star Wars: Empire at War: Forces of Corruption *Star Wars Battlefront: Renegade Squadron *Star Wars: Jedi Knight: Mysteries of the Sith *Knights of the Old Republic Campaign Guide Category:CryoBan weaponry Category:Rifles