95948
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Kler%27terrian
Kler'terrian
3903

|habitat= |diet= |language= }} The sentient species known as Kler'terrians were native to the Kler'terria system, a Core Worlds star system. The Kler'terrians had four arms, which they could move independently of each other. On the top of their heads, they had three eyestalks, arranged equidistant from each other. During the Galactic Civil War, the Kler'terrian Gor'telp worked as a bartender at Shilley's, an establishment on the planet Questal. The Kler'terrians were a sentient species with three flexible eyestalks evenly spaced on the crown of their heads. These eyestalks could operate independently, allowing members of the species 360-degree vision. The Kler'terrians had large mouths, with two canines protruding from the lower jaw. The species had four arms; their second set of shoulders was located directly under the first. Those arms ended in hands with three fingers and an opposable thumb, and the Kler'terrians could quite comfortably manage four independent tasks with their arms. The Kler'terrian Gor'telp had a paunch. The Kler'terrians were native to Kler'terria system, a star system located in the south-western portion of the Core Worlds. During the Galactic Civil War, the Kler'terrian Gor'telp worked as a bartender at Shilley's, a seamy cantina on the planet Questal. In addition to serving alcohol, Gor'telp kept a close eye on events in the cantina. Although his first choice when anticipating trouble from one of the patrons was to call in the Wookiee bouncer Snufftalon, Gor'telp also kept three blasters&mdash;set to stun&mdash;hidden along the bar. Gor'telp was working when agents of the Alliance to Restore the Republic visisted the establishment on Questal to track down missing Rebel operative Tay Vanis. The Kler'terrians were created by Robert Kern for the roleplaying adventure The Game Chambers of Questal, published by West End Games as a standalone paperback in 1990,The Game Chambers of Questal and as part of the collection Classic Adventures: Volume Five in 1995. The Kler'terrian Gor'telp was illustrated by Andrew Bates and Ramón Pérez. *The Game Chambers of Questal Category:Core Worlds sentient species