96213
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Samuac
Samuac
5010

The Samuac were a near-Human species from the Outer Rim Territories moon New Kisge. Around 12 BBY, the male Samuac Sisquoc graduated from the Galactic Outdoor Survival School, where he was a record-setting student. During the Galactic Civil War, the Samuac allied themselves with the Rebel Alliance, with the Alliance establishing its Delta Base on New Kisge. The Samuac were a sentient near-Human species. Members of Samuac society identified as belonging to at least one&mdash;male&mdash;gender. The species shared its name with the spoken language known as the Samuac Tree Code as well as the entity known as the Samuac Sukeu, with which the SamuacAlliance Intelligence Reports Sisquoc was affiliated. The Samuac hailed from the moon New Kisge&mdash;the surface of which featured jungle&mdash;of the planet Chaasch, situated in the Suolriep sector of the Outer Rim Territories. &mdash; Based on corresponding data for Suolriep system During the Galactic Civil War between the Rebel Alliance and the Galactic Empire, the Samuac allied themselves with the Alliance, which established one of its largest bases, Delta Base, on their homeworld. The species was protected from retribution by the Empire due to the fact that it was relatively unknown in the Empire. Around 12 BBY,Alliance Intelligence Reports, which establishes that Sisquoc graduated from the Galactic Outdoor Survival School approximately fourteen standard years prior to its setting, represents a collection of in-universe reports from "one year before the Battle of Hoth," which corresponds to 2 ABY, according to The New Essential Chronology. the male Samuac Sisquoc was a student at the offworld Galactic Outdoor Survival School. A member of what would become known as the Twilight Class, he broke nearly every record set by the school's students. After the graduation of the Twilight Class, Sisquoc eventually became a member of the Rebel Alliance, in which he was one of the best trackers and scouts, and recruited many of his classmates into the Alliance as well. By 2 ABY, he had achieved the rank of major and served with Alliance Special Forces. The Samuac were introduced in Alliance Intelligence Reports, a 1995 sourcebook for West End Games' Star Wars: The Roleplaying Game. In the book, the Samuac Sisquoc appeared in the short companion narrative "Graduation." *Alliance Intelligence Reports *Secrets of the Sisar Run Category:Human and Near-Human species Category:Suolriep sector sentient species