96382
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Tren
Tren
8069

|class= |subspecies= |races= |height= |length= |wingspan= |mass= |skincolor=Dark bluish-purple |haircolor=None |feathers= |eyecolor= |distinctions=Injury-resistant skin |lifespan= |origin= |habitat= |diet= |language= }} The Tren were a species of sentient humanoids with tough, hairless, blue-purple skin and simple facial features. Members of the species sought order in their society, a pursuit that sometimes impeded their judgment of right and wrong. The Tren colonized three worlds, including Nopsin. During the Galactic Civil War, the Tren were initially divided over whether to support the Galactic Empire or the Alliance to Restore the Republic. As the Tren colonies swore their allegiance to the Empire one after another, a resistance movement sprung up to oppose the New Order. When Nopsin voted to join the Empire, the species had become completely integrated into the Empire. Nevertheless, the resistance continued, at least at the individual level. One such Rebel sympathizer was the Tren Opit-Wenbruh, who finished his commission in the military and joined the Rebel Alliance. He served as a member of Scandium Team and Brace Team as a heavy weapons specialist. The Tren were sentient humanoids with stocky builds and thick, bluish-purple skin that was resistant to injury and damage. Each member of the species was completely hairless and had five-fingered hands. The species was divided into males and females. The Tren head was largely Human-like, with two eyes, a nose, a mouth, and two ears positioned like those of a Human. Nevertheless, their large jaw and angled forehead, coupled with their pupil-less eyes, made Tren seem to have "simple" faces in the eyes of other species. A strong desire for order permeated Tren society. That impulse was so compelling that it sometimes superseded the species' sense of morality. The Tren had access to space-travel technology, and they founded three colonies. At least one of those, the planet Nopsin, had a military during the Galactic Civil War. Soldiers on Nopsin were forbidden to pursue other occupations until they had completed their tour of duty. The Tren colonized three different planets, the last of which was Nopsin, a world in the Mid RimThe Essential Atlas that they reached sometime before the outbreak of the Galactic Civil War. During that galaxy-spanning conflict, the Tren found themselves unsure whether to declare their loyalties to the Galactic Empire or the Alliance to Restore the Republic. Resistance movements sprung up to oppose the New Order and agitate for the Tren to support the Alliance, but a strong desire for order compelled other Tren to back Emperor Palpatine's new regime. Eventually, two of the three colonies officially threw their support behind the Empire, criminalizing the pro-Alliance fighters, suppressing the remaining fighters, and wiping out much of their support. Only Nopsin remained undecided on the issue. Nopsin eventually held a vote over the planet's allegiance, a vote that the pro-Imperial Tren won in a landslide. The remaining resistance fighters realized that theirs was a lost cause and gave up trying to convince their fellow Tren to join the Rebellion. With that, the Tren colonies became voluntary member governments of the Galactic Empire. As Nopsin threw its support behind the Empire, a young soldier in its military named Opit-Wenbruh found his loyalties divided. As one of the few Tren who valued morality over orderliness, he wanted to finish his tour of duty. However, the many actions of the Empire that he felt were immoral made him sympathize with the Tren resistance and the Rebel Alliance. Opit-Wenbruh waited for his term of service to end and then began a campaign against the Empire in retaliation for the evils he felt that it had perpetrated. Opit-Wenbruh eventually joined the Rebel Alliance as a member of the Scandium Team, one of the Rebellion's earliest Special Operations units. The Tren used his military experience by filling the role of a heavy weapons specialist. With the dissolution of Scandium after it suffered heavy losses in various engagements, Opit-Wenbruh served as a weapons technician and designer. He later joined Brace Team, an Alliance group that specialized in using heavy weapons to create a barrier between Alliance and Imperial forces. The Tren were created by authors C. Robert Carey and Trevor J. Wilson for the article "Cracken's Rebel Operatives," published in the Star Wars Adventure Journal 11 in November 1996. The Tren character they introduced, Opit-Wenbruh, was illustrated by Kathy Burdette. Years later, in 2011, an update to Star Wars: The Essential Atlas Online Companion included an entry for the Opitha Tren system. Comments made by Jason Fry, one of the authors of The Essential Atlas, indicate that several new star systems have been introduced as part of the Atlas project to represent the homes of species, based on context implied by their names. Opitha Tren thus may be intended to represent the home star system of the Tren species. Category:Mid Rim sentient species