96902
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Rseikharhl
Rseikharhl
12720

Jason Fry, co-author of The Essential Atlas, stated his intention to create homeworlds for numerous species based on context implied from their names. Jason Fry confirmed that Rseik was the Rseikharhl homeworld in an edit on Wookieepedia, with authorship of the edit later confirmed at |habitat= |diet= |language= }} The Rseikharhl were a sentient species from Rseik, which was located in the Rseik sector of the Outer Rim Territories. By 214 BBY, the Rseikharhl were technologically advanced and were able to provide antidotes for the Bordal Contagion that year after the Galactic Republic's shipments were destroyed by Fujari pirates. Following the Republic's inability to aid the sector, the Rseikharhl, Kett Shipping, the Ma'ar Shaddam Weaponsmiths Guild, and other interests from the area set up a meeting with a representative from the Trade Federation, which ended with many of the organizations in the area becoming Trade Federation members. The Rseikharhl developed droids such as the LE-VO law enforcement droid, which they used in law enforcement across the entire sector. By the time of the Galactic Empire, the species was under Imperial jurisdiction, and their droids had spread throughout the galaxy, especially to worlds on the galactic frontier. The Rseikharhl were a sentient species. thumb|right|upright|A Rseikharhl-desgined LE-VO law enforcement droid Due in large part to the LE-VO law enforcement droids that the Rseikharhl Droid Group produced,Star Wars: Edge of the Empire Core Rulebook the Rseikharhl effectively managed law enforcement across their home sector, the Rseik sector, which was located next to the Minos Cluster, Tarabba, Tamarin and Svivreni sectors. During the time of the Bordal Contagion, the Rseikharhl used their own resources to construct laboratories and antidotes to help stop the plague, which was killing the Bordali. While under the Galactic Empire's jurisdiction, the technologically adept species took care designing and programming droids that did not deviate from Imperial codes and only used force when necessary. The Rseikharhl believed preventing wrongful deaths was more important than stopping a few criminals from taking advantage of the droids' insistence on the least violent solution. Due to the Rseikharhl's beliefsGalladinium's Fantastic Technology and Imperial laws, the species' droids were normally equipped with non-lethal stun weaponry. The Rseikharhl species was native to Rseik in the Rseik system, which was located within the Outer Rim Territories. By 214 BBY, the sector of space containing the Rseikharhl homeworld was known as the Rseik sector. The sector was sparsely populated and plagued by many different groups of pirates. The Galactic Republic, who ruled a large portion of the galaxy at that time, had not paid much attention to the area for around a century. In 214 BBY, a deadly plague known as the Bordal Contagion began killing the Bordali. The Republic developed an antidote for the disease, but the convoy sent to deliver the shipment was attacked by Fujari pirates. When the Republic did not send additional aid, the Rseikharhl constructed laboratories and synthesized the antidote for the Bordali, but they were not able to produce the antidote before millions of Bordali died to the plague. Following the Bordal Contagion, the Rseikharhl, the Ma'ar Shaddam Weaponsmiths Guild, Kett Shipping, and other groups from the area discussed the situation and decided to arrange a meeting with a representative from the Trade Federation, a powerful galactic corporation. After a single day of meeting with the representative on Syned and discussing the planets, their financial situations, and the various pirate groups in the area, the organizations that attended the meeting became members of the Trade Federation. One Rseikharhl company that joined the Trade Federation was Rseikharhl Hullspace. Shortly afterward, warships from the Trade Defense Force overwhelmed the pirates in the area. Eventually the Trade Federation had control over the entire Rseik sector. By the time of the Galactic Civil War fought between the Galactic Empire and the Rebel Alliance, the Rseikharhl were considered a technologically advanced species and fell under Imperial rule. During that period, the species had expanded its reach to police the entire Rseik sector, often with the aid of droids of Rseikharhl design. One such droid model was the bipedal LE-VO law enforcement droid, which was designed by the Rseikharhl Droid Group. The model's non-lethal programming was remarkably successful, as the droids secured over 22,000 arrests without causing any fatalities across a ten-year period. Due to that record, the Empire permitted the Rseikharhl to continue using the droids to police their sector despite the model's advanced nature. The Rseikharhl design could be found throughout the galaxy, operating as part of police forces and private security outfits. The droids were particularly common on many frontier worlds in the Outer Rim Territories, such as Tatooine,Star Wars Missions 10: Showdown in Mos Eisley acting as local constabularies. At some point during the war between the Rebel Alliance and the Empire, the droids were available for sale at 9,000 credits from both the illegal Cynabar's Droid Datalog and the pro-Imperial Galladinium's Galactic Datalog of Fantastic Technology. The Rseikharhl were created for the 1995 West End Games sourcebook Galladinium's Fantastic Technology, in an entry on the LE-VO law enforcement droid created by Mike Kogge for The Fantastic Technology Contest. In 1997, the droid and the Rseikharhl were mentioned again in Cynabar's Fantastic Technology: Droids, which was written by Drew Campbell and Eric S. Trautmann. The Rseikharhl homeworld was confirmed to be Rseik by The Essential Atlas co-author Jason Fry in 2010. The Rseikharhl were originally going to be mentioned in The Essential Guide to Warfare, a 2012 reference book written by Jason Fry and Paul R. Urquhart, but the section that included them was cut. However, in 2014, the cut section was released in "Showdown at Naboo," the sixth part of Star Wars: The Essential Guide to Warfare Author's Cut. "Showdown on Naboo" mentioned that the Galactic Republic had not thought about the Rseik sector in around a century, but the article did not confirm whether the sector and the Rseikharhl were under Republic jurisdiction. The article also mentioned Rseik, but did not specify whether it was a planet or another type of stellar body. The Star Wars: Edge of the Empire Core Rulebook identified the species' main sector as the "Rseikharhl" sector, instead of the Rseik sector referred to in the West End Games books and "Showdown on Naboo." This article assumes that Rseik sector spelling is correct. In Galladinium's Fantastic Technology and Cynabar's Fantastic Technology, "Rseikharhls" is given as the plural form of the species name, while "Showdown at Naboo" gave "Rseikharhl" as the plural form. As "Showdown at Naboo" is the most recent source, this article treats "Rseikharhl" as the correct plural spelling for the species name. *Galladinium's Fantastic Technology *Cynabar's Fantastic Technology: Droids *The Essential Guide to Warfare *Star Wars: Edge of the Empire Core Rulebook *Star Wars: Age of Rebellion Core Rulebook Category:Outer Rim Territories sentient species