96980
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Widget_(droid)
Widget (droid)
4226

Widget was Mora's droid assistant on the planet M'haeli in 0 ABY. Widget was a short, bipedal droid with a primarily yellow and brown body.River of Chaos 1 He wore a red handkerchief around his neck on occasion. Widget was constructed by Mora when she was in her early teens. It took a half dozen failed attempts to initialize the droid's cognitive processor. A cymbal-shaped pan sat atop Widget's head, and his face was almost hidden beneath it. He had two red photoreceptors, and a vocabulator that was flawed and resulted in Widget talking in a stutter during times of stress. Two power cables sprouted from the top of his head, connecting to a power generator on Widget's back. The cables doubled as antennae. Widget had short, stubby legs and a broad, weighted base that gave him a waddling, uneven stride and a low center of gravity. His flexible midsection supported an armored torso, which housed a recessed control panel used for inputting commands and performing diagnostics when the droid was powered down or idle. The droid's arms ended in square hands with blunt fingers. Each arm contained dozens of small machinist's tools that could extended through the hand's digits and palms. The right forearm contained a magnifier, a spotlight luma, and a range of wire cutters. A laser welder, gripper clamps, and a computer-access link were contained in the left arm. However, Widget suffered from frequent system glitches. Mora reconstructed the droid on a monthly basis, which helped her to hone her skills. thumb|right|200px|A diagram of some of Widget's functions When Mora was eighteen, she was operating her own repair ship in N'croth, the capital city of the planet M'haeli. Widget worked alongside her, and his work and in-built tools helped to make Mora a better mechanic. Following the battle of Yavin, Princess Leia came to M'haeli to support the local insurgency in their fight against Governor Grigor. Widget proved to be of worth, helping the team rescue prisoners from Grigor's mines and retrieving coded data on the corrupt governor's illegal activities. He assisted Mora with her repairs business, and joined her when she went offworld with Ranulf Trommer and Ch'no to join the wider Rebellion. *River of Chaos 1 *River of Chaos 2 *River of Chaos 3 *River of Chaos 4 *The Essential Guide to Droids Category:Droids of the Alliance to Restore the Republic Category:Droids with masculine programming Category:Maintenance droids