98770
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Starhunter%27s_Intergalactic_Menagerie
Starhunter's Intergalactic Menagerie
3976

Starhunter's Intergalactic Menagerie was a traveling circus and rarity show, owned by Captain Stroon and his assistant, Slarm. right|thumb|Alien and Human personnel of the Starhunters Intergalactic Menagerie.Touring the galaxy during the early days of the Empire,A Guide to the Star Wars Universe, Second Edition, Revised and Expanded the Starhunter's Intergalactic Menagerie was a traveling sideshow whose attractions were rare and usually illegally acquired creatures from many different worlds, and it moved from system to system in a huge cruiser, a Starhunter menagerie ark. The sideshow and ship were owned and operated by Captain Stroon, while his first mate and assistant was Slarm. The "Starhunters" were a crew of trackers made up of both Humans and aliens. They could also specializing in capturing intelligent lifeforms, such as the humanoid Greej, who they would sell as "pets" to aliens in distant parts of the galaxy. They sometimes made a supply stop at Chuzalla. At some point the Starhunters came to Dandelo, a planet of the Outer Rim Territories. They drove the local Fuzzums from their caves so as to convert the dwellings into cages to store rare beasts destined to join their traveling menagerie. From time to time, Fuzzums were spotted and captured by the Starhunters; these captives were then forced to use their skills as trappers and hunters to find more animals for the menagerie. Over time, the Starhunters began to actively seek out Fuzzums as well as non-sentient species, and the Fuzzums grew to hate these offworlders. In 15 BBY states that Star Wars: Droids is set 15 years before Star Wars: Episode IV A New Hope. The New Essential Chronology places the events of A New Hope in 0 BBY, meaning that Star Wars: Droids takes place in 15 BBY. Jann Tosh put them of out business after they had captured Ingey, the pet of Coby. *A Guide to the Star Wars Universe, Second Edition, Revised and Expanded *Star Wars Encyclopedia *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Circuses