98775
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Greej
Greej
4284

Greej was an elderly male Near-Human who was held prisoner by Starhunter's Intergalactic Menagerie, until Price Coby, Jann Tosh, and his droids set him free. He helped them find Ingey and defeat the Starhunters, with the later intetion of bringing back all the abducted animals with the help of Coby. Greej, an individual with three-fingered hands, was once a caretaker of an animal sanctuary. He wanted to return the animals to their natural habitats, but couldn't due having no money and no partners. Eventually Stroon, the owner of the Starhunter's Intergalactic Menagerie, imprisoned him to keep from interfering. He was placed alongside other animals in caves adapted as cages on Dandelo, a planet in the Outer Rim Territories. By 15 BBY, states that Star Wars: Droids is set 15 years before Star Wars: Episode IV A New Hope. The New Essential Chronology places the events of A New Hope in 0 BBY, meaning that Star Wars: Droids takes place in 15 BBY. the Starhunters had planned to sell him as an "exotic lifeform" to aliens living in distant parts of the galaxy. That year he ended up sharing his cell with Ingey, a Tessellated Arboreal binjinphant abducted on the spaceport of Zallakesh on Chuzalla. He was freed by Coby, who had reached the planet to retrieve his pet and helped defeat the Starhunters. Later the young Tammuz-an decided to declined enrollment at the Imperial Academy, choosing instead to help Greej relocate the animals the Starhunters had taken from their natural habitats. Greej appeared to be Human, except he has three-fingered hands. An old man by the year 15 BBY, he had dark blue eyes and brown hair. He wore a dark brown jump-suit with a tan vest and hat. Greej made its first appearances in "Coby and the Starhunters", the ninth episode of the TV series Star Wars: Droids: The Adventures of R2-D2 and C-3PO, which first aired in November 2, 1985. He was voiced by John Stocker, who had also voiced several chacters in Droids and Star Wars: Ewoks. Category:Individuals of unidentified species Category:Males Category:Near-Humans