99429
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Special_Tactics_trooper
Special Tactics trooper
4872

thumb|right|250px|Special Tactics troopers lent to the ORSF are attacked on the surface of [[Troiken/Legends|Troiken.]] Special Tactics troopers or Special Missions troops were special forces of the Galactic Republic Judicial Department. They wore uniforms and were armed with A280 blaster rifles.Rogue Planet Battalions of troopers supported the Outland Regions Security Force during the Stark Hyperspace War. thumb|left|325px|Republic forces near Mount Avos during the Stark Hyperspace War.In 54 BBY, Seswenna sector Senator Ranulph Tarkin, creator of the Outland Regions Security Force, was extremely worried of the Republic's lack of preparedness for potential significant military threats. Many Judicial Forces agreed with Tarkin and privately hoped that he would win his legal battle with their weakened department. After Tarkin won appointments to several key committees and became the head of the Militarist movement of the Republic, he started the First Battle of Qotile in order to expose the weakness of the Republic and emerge victorious over the Stark Commercial Combine. Sympathetic Judicials lent him full battalions of Special Missions assault troops to provide a ground assault force for the conflict.The Essential Guide to Warfare thumb|250px|Special Tactics troopers and Jedi hold off Combine forces.During the First Battle of Qotile, two-thirds of the ORSF fleet simply disappeared after jumping into hyperspace due to the Tionese program virus. The rest were trounced by the Combine fleet and the survivors evacuated to the surface of Troiken. There, the Militarists' favors turned. Special Tactics troopers rescued Senator Valorum and his Jedi escorts, then dug in beneath Mount Avos. They fought several battles on the planet and held off the Combine's mercenary forces with E-Web fire and PLEX missiles. A small force of Judicials and Jedi were able to escape with Valorum and eventually the siege was lifted with the Stark Collective's defeat in the Fifth Battle of Qotile.The Essential Guide to Warfare'Star Wars: The Stark Hyperspace War thumb|left|250px|[[Laslo Dorits speaking for the Stark Veteran Assembly.]]In 29 BBY, Special Tactics troopers accompanied Commander Wilhuff Tarkin of the ORSF to the Gardaji Rift and participated in the Second Battle of Zonama Sekot.Rogue Planet Republic soldiers who fought in the Stark Hyperspace War later formed the Stark Veteran Assembly. One member, Laslo Dorits, criticized Senator Padmé Amidala for statements she made during a Peace Rally on Commenor in 23 BBY. The Special Tactics troopers were the predecessors of the Galactic Empire's Special Missions troopers. The Republic-affiliated troopers that appeared in the 2001 comic arc The Stark Hyperspace War were retconed by The Essential Guide to Warfare as being the Special Tactics troopers from the Rogue Planet novel. *Star Wars (1998) 38 *Rogue Planet *The Essential Guide to Warfare Category:Galactic Republic soldiers Category:Special forces units