99734
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Lungru_Nokko_Vimmas
Lungru Nokko Vimmas
17347

Lungru Nokko Vimmas was a female Hutt who lived during the time of the New Republic. A member of the Nokko kajidic, Lungru was born into a wealthy family and owned a summer palace on the planet Joodrudda where she was attended to by a retinue of Cerean attendants and maintained a personal menagerie of exotic animals. Lungru was a long-standing rival and business partner of the Hutt Popara of the Anjiliac Hutt clan and in 19 ABY she attended a party held at Popara's penthouse on the moon Nar Shaddaa. Following Popara's murder, a group of individuals falsely accused of responsibility for the Anjiliac Hutt's demise sought shelter with Lungru. However, she refused to take them in and alerted Popara's eldest son Zonnos as to their location. Two months later, Lungru's kajidic reached an accord with the Anjiliac clan and to seal the deal, Popara's younger son Mika gifted two Corellian sand panthers to Lungru to add to her menagerie. Lungru Nokko Vimmas was a female Hutt who live during the reigns of the Galactic Empire and the New Republic. A member of the Nokko kajidic, one of the lesser Hutt clans, Lungru was born into a wealthy family and inherited a prosperous business. She reached an advanced age, throughout her life bearing witness to many clan wars and constantly having to contend with her rivals to remain in a position of influence. She became a long-standing adversary of the Hutt Popara Anjiliac Diresto, the patriarch of the Anjiliac kajidic, and during her earlier years competed against many of Popara's business operations. She later determined that it was less effort and more financially rewarding to work with Popara than to oppose him and she became a well-established business associate of the Anjiliac clan. Lungru maintained a dwelling on the moon Nar Shaddaa which was watched over by a complement of Nikto guards. In addition, from at least the Galactic Empire's early years, she also possessed a summer palace on Joodrudda, a planet situated close to the borders of the Corporate Sector, which was watched over by several orbiting Hutt caravel starships owned by her. At one time Lungru was attended to by a complement of Evocii, a species native to the Hutt adopted homeworld Nal Hutta. After the Evocii seemingly fell extinct centuries before the rule of the New Republic, Lungru employed a retinue of Cerean attendants, with the Cerean Kir Sesad serving as her chief advisor. The Cerean assassin Ogo Nan also often worked for Lungru as a freelancer. How exactly Lungru came about hiring her Cerean servants was a mystery to other Hutts and most assumed that she had forced them into assuming a large debt to her, which they were paying off through their service. Lungru also kept a personal menagerie of exotic and unusual creatures at her retreat on Joodrudda, where they were situated far from the attentions of environmentalists, and she long sought to add some Corellian sand panthers to her collection. In 19 ABY, Lungru attended a party held by Popara at the Anjiliac patriarch's penthouse on Nar Shaddaa. Lungru was accompanied to the gathering by Kir Sesad and four Cerean soldiers serving as her bodyguards, and during the event she was seated at a table with the Jedi Master Mander Zuma and the Corporate Sector Authority representative Miltar Dolor. She conversed with Zuma, with Sesad acting as her translator, expressing interest in the Jedi's recent rescue of Popara's youngest son Mika from the quarantined planet Endregaad and jesting about the possibility of Sesad being behind a recent assassination attempt on Mika by the Cerean Ogo Nan. She had a disagreement with Zuma about the prospects of the newly-emerged potent spice tempest, which Zuma sought to shutdown production of but which Lungru viewed as an opportunity, with the quarrel leaving her speechless and grasping for a hokuum pipe. Lungru and her entourage then attended a private meeting with Popara in the penthouse's inner chamber. Shortly after her meeting was concluded, Popara was murdered and his eldest son Zonnos falsely denounced Zuma as the responsible party, forcing the Jedi and Zuma's associates flee. In the aftermath of Popara's demise, Lungru retreated to her Nar Shaddaa residence. She theorized that Zonnos was the true party responsible for the Anjiliac patriarch's death and did not suspect the involvement of the true culprit, Mika. In search of a safe place to lie low,, Zuma, Be'ray and Irana came to Lungru's house and requested shelter. The Hutt refused to let them in, reasoning that if she assisted the outlaws then other Hutts would believe her to have been involved in Popara's murder. While engaging with the fugitives via a holoprojector at her door and keeping them talking, Lungru had Kir Sesad send word to Zonnos of their visit, then dispatched eight of her Nikto guards to ambush her callers. However, Zuma and his companions fled. Lungru blamed Kir Sesad for the fugitives getting away and considered their escape to have tarnished her standing with Zonnos. Around two months later, Lungru and her kajidic reached an accord with the Anjiliac Hutts. To seal the deal between their clans, Mika Anjiliac gifted two Corellian sand panthers, a male and a female, to Lungru to add to her menagerie. Mika hired Zuma, Be'ray and Irana for the assignment despite their previous run-in with Lungru, reasoning that she would not harm them while they served as his agents. Mika's envoys transported the panthers to Lungru's palace on Joodrudda. While unloading the creatures, the Anjiliac agents became involved in an armed standoff with Kir Sesad and some of Lungru's Cerean guards, who sought to provoke Zuma and his associates into attacking them to thereby allow Sesad to ingratiate himself with Lungru by killing her enemies while claiming that he had acted in self-defense. The Anjiliac agents survived their encounter with Sesad and as they departed Joodrudda in their starship, Lungru sent them a message via a comlink to apologize for the actions of her employees and promising that she would not seek redress against the envoys while they remained in Mika's service. A typical member of her species, Lungru was belligerent when challenged and was reputed for being spiteful and vindictive; her adversaries would often disappear well after she had seemingly lost interest in them. She was cautious and rarely took chances in her business endeavors, and she fancied that it was because of her wariness that she succeeded at reaching an old age. She had a love for trickery and encouraged deviousness amongst those who served her. Lungru viewed the emergence of the potent spice tempest as an opportunity but reasoned that whoever was behind the appearance of the spice must be cleverer than her. She therefore determined not to involve herself in the tempest trade until the mastermind behind the new spice publicly revealed themselves. Lungru almost entirely employed Cereans as her attendants and her ego led her to deride Klatooinian, Nikto and Twi'leks, species commonly employed by other Hutts, to be too ordinary to serve her. Though a one time rival of Popara, Lungru found working with the Anjiliac patriarch to be easier than fighting him and came to hold him in high regard. Lungru believed that Hutts became more sentimental as they got older and that Popara had softened in his old age; by 19 ABY she considered that the time had came for Popara to surrender control of the Anjiliac kajidic to someone new. Despite her respect for Popara, she was not saddened by his death and had little fondness for the Anjiliac clan; Popara, Zonnos and Mika in turn did not fully trust Lungru. She viewed Zonnos as a lightweight who sought to make himself seem important in order to live up to his father's legacy, while she had little regard for Mika, who she believed was babied by Popara and needed protection. After Mika attained leadership of the Anjiliac kajidic, Lungru came to believe that the younger Hutt would run his clan in a successful and profitable manner, but would allow his associates less freedom than Popara had. Lungru had a diamond-shaped insignia on her forehead and spoke in a booming voice. She was multi-lingual, being about to speak and write both Huttese and Basic, in addition to being fluent in the languages Klatooinian, Nikto and Ryl. Lungru commonly carried a blaster pistol and datapad, and she was proficient in the use of computers and in wielding blasters and other simple weapons. Lungru was created by Jeff Grubb and first appeared in Tempest Feud, a roleplaying adventure set within Star Wars Legends continuity and published by Wizards of the Coast on March 1 2002 as a supplement to the Star Wars Roleplaying Game. The adventure included a picture of Lungru by the artist Adi Granov, a small version of which was used as a recurring motif throughout the book. Lungru later received a brief mention in the 2008 compendium The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia, in the entry for Joodrudda. She subsequently featured in the 2012 novel Scourge, an adaptation of Tempest Feud also by Jeff Grubb. Tempest Feud had no exact setting and it was possible for the events of the adventure to take place during either the Rise of the Empire publishing era, the Rebellion era, the New Republic era or the New Republic era. The Complete Star Wars Encylopedia later established that Lungru was active during the early years of the Galactic Empire, while Scourge placed the events in Tempest Feud to 19 ABY, thus making the New Republic era the canonical setting for Lungru's attendance at Popara's party and her interchanges with the individuals accused of his murder. Whereas Tempest Feud depicts Lungru as male, Scourge portrays her as female. In the novel, Mander Zuma, Reen Irana and Eddey Be'ray are identified as the individuals accused by Zonnos of Popara's murder, a role attributed to the player characters in Tempest Feud. The novel does not however depict these individuals as seeking shelter from Lungru or later transporting Mika Anjiliac's gift to her on Joodrudda. As these are only possible events in Tempest Feud that are dependent on the player characters opting to undertake those course of actions, it is therefore ambiguous as to whether those events form part of official Star Wars Legends continuity. In Tempest Feud the player characters can interact with Lungru during Popara's party and again later if they attempt to seek shelter at her home on Nar Shaddaa subsequently they are falsely accused of killing Popara. If the player characters later accept Mika's assignment to transport two Corellian sand panthers to Lungru on Joodrudda, it is possible for the players to be goaded into attacking Kir Sesad and Lungru's Cerean guards. If such an attack takes place and the player characters are defeated, Lungru orders that the surviving player characters be treated with medpacs and returned to their starship. A key plot point of Tempest Feud feud is the revelation that Mika Anjiliac is responsible for the development of the potent spice tempest. The adventure suggests that if the player characters suspect Mika of being responsible for the propagation of the spice, the gamemaster running the campaign can try to deflect suspicion onto Lungru. The adventure also suggests that if Mika is killed prematurely in the adventure then Lungru can seize control of Mika's tempest manufacturing plant on the planet Varl. Lungru then becomes the new primary antagonist to the players and fulfills Mika's role for the remainder of the adventure. *Scourge *Tempest Feud Category:Business owners and executives Category:Females Category:Hutts Category:Nar Shaddaa residents