99846
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Combat_Engineer_Battalion
Combat Engineer Battalion
12232

|formation=Battalion |commander=*Jedi Master Yoda *Jedi General Obi-Wan Kenobi |second=Jedi Commander Ahsoka Tano |staff=Clone Sergeant Gaffa |subunit= |strength=Clone engineers |vehicles= |headquarters= |location=Kashyyyk |battles=A skirmish aboard the Twilight |formed= |founded= |fragmented= |reorganized= |dissolved= |restored= |affiliation=*Galactic Republic **38th Armored Division }} The Combat Engineer Battalion, also called the Combat Engineers Battalion or just the Engineer Battalion, was a battalion of clone engineers of the Grand Army of the Republic's 38th Armored Division. Serving under the commander of Jedi Master Yoda, the troops of the battalion were sent where needed to act as armored ground support for heavy artillery units such as tanks and turbolasers. A contingent of engineers from the Combat Engineer Battalion took part in a skirmish aboard the Twilight, during which they took parts from an inoperable battle tank and created a missile firing battle platform to win the fight. thumb|left|200px|A combat engineer clone trooper. The Combat Engineer Battalion was a subdivision of the Grand Army of the Republic's 38th Armored Division. Led by Jedi Master Yoda, the clone combat engineers that made up the battalion's forces were specially trained to work with large war machines, such as the HAVw A6 Juggernaut tank and the Self-Propelled Heavy Artillery turbolaser, and as such were sent anywhere ground support was needed. The clone troopers of the Combat Engineer Battalion wore white Phase II clone trooper armor with fleurs-de-lis chest markings and helmets painted with three wide stripes on the top. Two lines also extended from the fleurs-de-lis down to the upper legs where they stop. These markings were worn in either a brown or a dull yellow color. Some clones of the Engineer Battalion only had markings on their helmets, where the brow and central fin were colored yellow. The clone engineers utilized F-187 fusioncutters to make repairs and modifications to the equipment they worked on. thumb|right|300px|Combat Engineers, including Sergeant Gaffa, at work. The clone troopers that made up the Combat Engineer Battalion were created on the planet Kamino by the Kaminoans to serve the Galactic Republic. The battalion of troopers were used by the Republic to combat the Confederacy of Independent Systems during the Clone Wars. The battalion was placed under the command of Jedi Master Yoda and stationed on the planet Kashyyyk. By 20 BBY, depicts Ahsoka Tano as an active member of the Jedi Order. Since the Star Wars: The Clone Wars season five episode "The Wrong Jedi" shows Tano leaving the Order, the events of the comic must take place no later than the when the episode takes place, which The Official Star Wars Fact File Part 42 dates the events of to 20 BBY. members of the Engineer Battalion, along with an inoperable battle tank they planned to salvage, were present on the G9 Rigger freighter the Twilight under the leadership of Jedi General Obi-Wan Kenobi and Jedi Commander Ahsoka Tano. Part of a fleet, an engagement against Separatist battle droids resulted in Republic forces retreating, which left the Twilight to be pursued by Vulture-class starfighters. The battle resulted in six of the battalion's engineers on life-support and four more with long-term injuries. With the damage the Twilight sustained shutting down the ship's hyperdrive and engines, B1-series battle droids were able to board the freighter. During the ensuing skirmish, Gaffa, a Clone Sergeant of the Combat Engineer Battalion, devised a plan. While their Jedi commanders fended off the onslaught of battle droids, Gaffa and the rest of the able-bodied troops reconfigured parts of the inoperable tank into what Gaffa dubbed as the A5-RX Spread-Missile Battle Platform. The clones then proceeded to fire a volley of missiles, blasting a hole into the side of the Twilight, causing the droids to be jettisoned into space. Through the hole they made, the clones then shot more missiles, destroying the vulture droids outside and allowing the Twilight to escape. At the war's end in 19 BBY,The New Essential Chronology dates the events of Star Wars: Episode III Revenge of the Sith, which includes the end of the Clone Wars to 19 BBY. the clones of the Combat Engineer Battalion were issued Order 66, which branded all Jedi as traitors to the Republic, by Supreme Chancellor Palpatine, to which the Engineer Battalion turned against their Jedi leaders. The actions of the battalion, along with the other clones of the Grand Army, ushered in the First Galactic Empire with Palpatine as the Galactic Emperor. thumb|right|250px|Concept art featuring the Engineer Battalion's design. First pictured in The Making of Star Wars Revenge of the Sith, the armor design that would eventually become that of the Combat Engineer Battalion was created by Alex Jaeger, originally meant to be a clone commander variation for the film Star Wars: Episode III Revenge of the Sith.The Making of Star Wars Revenge of the Sith Going unused in the film, the design was eventually repurposed for the Combat Engineer Battalion, being identified in Hasbro's Star Wars: The Saga Collection pack number sixty-eight labeled "Combat Engineer Clone Trooper." The pack was released in 2007,Star Wars: The Ultimate Action Figure Collection and gave the name "Combat Engineer Battalion." Released in May 20, 2008, the roleplaying game sourcebook Threats of the Galaxy gave the slightly different name of the "Combat Engineers Battalion," where the only difference is the pluralization of the word engineer.Threats of the Galaxy The battalion would finally makes its appearance in the "Repel All Boarders!" comic that featured in the eighteenth issue of the sixth volume of the Star Wars Comic magazines. Released on March 10, 2011, the comic was written by Robin Etherington and the Engineer Battalion's depiction was created by artist Andres Ponce. The comic also gave the unit the shortened name of "Engineer Battalion." *The Making of Star Wars Revenge of the Sith *Threats of the Galaxy *Star Wars: The Ultimate Action Figure Collection Category:Grand Army of the Republic battalions Category:Members of the 38th Armored Division