100827
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Lerrimore_Contracting_Company
Lerrimore Contracting Company
4667

Corporate Sector Authority contributing sponsor Lerrimore Contracting Company was a conglomerate consisting of over three hundred subsidiaries, dedicated to the production of household appliances, goods, and furniture. By around 10 ABY, it had become a voting sponsor, receiving greater profits and discounts from its former contributing sponsor status as well as unrestricted access to Authority employees. Lerrimore Contracting Company was a manufacturing company that produced household appliances, goods, and furniture, including the industrial glow rod, and owned over three hundred subsidiaries. Its logo was a skewed orange hexagon with a green border behind a horizontally aligned rectangle that was white and also had a green border. The rectangle featured a green jagged line that traveled from the bottom left corner to the top left corner, then diagonally across to the bottom right corner, and finally to the top right corner.The New Essential Guide to Weapons and Technology The company shared its name with the droid manufacturer Lerrimore Droids. The company provided funds, equipment, and services equivalent to a total of fifty trillion credits in order to become one of numerous original contributing sponsors of the Corporate Sector Authority. In return, it received nominal discounts on bulk goods and raw materials produced by the sector as well as a proportional share of Corporate Sector profits. The company would, by around 10 ABY,Interviews with Leia Organa Solo in Han Solo and the Corporate Sector Sourcebook note a recent interaction between her and Salla Zend on Nar Shaddaa. That interaction occurs in Star Wars: Dark Empire, which also depicts Organa Solo subsequently and directly traveling to the planets Byss and Mon Calamari. The New Essential Chronology dates those events to 10 ABY, and as such, the interviews and information in the sourcebook presented as "current" must occur following the events on Mon Calamari and thus around that year. be upgraded to a voting sponsor, receiving increased profits and discounts as well as unrestricted access to the employees of the Authority. Lerrimore Contracting Company was first mentioned in Han Solo and the Corporate Sector Sourcebook, a 1993 sourcebook for West End Games' Star Wars: The Roleplaying Game written by Michael Allen Horne. The company's logo, created by Ian Fullwood, was first depicted in the 2004 reference book written by W. Haden Blackman, The New Essential Guide to Weapons and Technology. *Han Solo and the Corporate Sector Sourcebook *The Essential Guide to Weapons and Technology *The New Essential Guide to Weapons and Technology Category:Conglomerates Category:Corporate Sector Authority contributing sponsors Category:Corporate Sector Authority voting sponsors Category:Manufacturing companies