101893
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Fighter_wing
Fighter wing
13550

}} thumb|280px|[[Bellicose's fighter wing|An Imperial fighter wing from the Bellicose]] A fighter wing, also referred to as an attack wing, flight wing, or simply a wing was an organizational unit of starfighters used in various navies or fleets. A fighter wing,Before the Awakening also referred to as an attack wingStar Wars: TIE Fighter Deluxe Book and Model Set or flight wing,Star Wars: Build the Millennium Falcon 81 was an organizational type of military unit of starfighters.Before the Awakening Varying navies and fleets deployed fighter wings.A New Dawn After studying Imperial Military history, Eli Vanto came to know that in melee battles, a fighter wing or two could make the difference between victory and destruction.Thrawn: Treason The commanding officer of a fighter wing was typically designated as a wing commander. }} The Alliance to Restore the Republic deployed fighter wings while active, which could be headquartered in a military base,Darth Vader (2015) 14 with its commanding officer known as a wing commander.Star Wars: The Complete Visual Dictionary, New Edition Large squadrons were also occasionally referred to as wings. The Separatist Alliance's armed forces utilized fighter wings, which they designated as flight wings, during their history. Separatist Hyena-class Droid Bombers were deployed to flight wings throughout the galaxy after production was increased. The First Order used fighter wings in their armed forces. First Order Resurgent-class Star Destroyers were equipped with two fighter wingsStar Wars: The Force Awakens: Incredible Cross-Sections that were composed of TIE/fo space superiority fighters, TIE/sf space superiority fighters, and TIE/se Bombers.Allegiance 1 A full attack wing within the Galactic Empire consisted of six squadrons, which numbered to seventy-two ships&mdash;usually forty-eight TIE/ln space superiority starfighters, twelve TIE/sa bombers, and twelve TIE/in interceptors. Imperial capital ships carried varying numbers of fighter wings as part of their complement. Imperial-class Star Destroyers carried one full attack wing,Star Wars: TIE Fighter Deluxe Book and Model Set at a minimum.Star Wars Encyclopedia of Starfighters and Other Vehicles The Secutor-class Star Destroyer carried two fighter wings, supplementing its role as a carrier.Starships and Speeders Imperial escort carriers had a complement of one fighter wing.Tarkin When part of a ship's complement, the fighter wing fell under the command of the ship's commanding officer.Vader - Dark Visions 2 Fighter wings also acted as part of a planetary defense force.Forged in Battle Additionally, Imperial fighter wings could act as independent military units that were headquartered on a starship, rather than serve solely as the ship's complement. These fighter wings were led by a colonel, and were supported by a major.Alphabet Squadron The leader of a fighter wing within the Empire was identified as a wing commander. The size of a fighter wing of the Galactic Republic varied, as one fighter wing could be composed of 120 starfightersLead by Example while four fighter wings could contain 400 starfighters. Venator-class Star Destroyers, had the ability to carry four full fighter wings.Rise of the Separatists The Maelstrom-class battle cruiser carried one fighter wing, which could contain up to 120 starfighters, though it also carried ninety-six. Wing commanders served as the commanding officers of fighter wings. The Nebulon-C escort frigate used by the New Republic and the Resistance could carry one fighter wing.Star Wars: The Last Jedi: Incredible Cross-Sections Wing commander or wing leader was used to identify the commanding officers of fighter wings in the New Republic and the Resistance.Star Wars Insider 177 A New Republic fighter wing led by Commander Wyl Lark was stationed on the Star Destroyer Deliverance and consisted of Flare Squadron, Hail Squadron, and Wild Squadron.Victory's Price: An Alphabet Squadron Novel The Vak Combine, a government within the Unknown Regions of the galaxy, utilized fighter wings. The military formation was known to the Chiss Ascendancy, another faction in the region.Thrawn Ascendancy: Chaos Rising By the start of the Clone Wars between the Galactic Republic and the Separatist Alliance, fighter wings were deployed by both the Republic Navy and the Confederacy navy. Venator-class Star Destroyers were each equipped with four fighter wings, which they utilized throughout their service. Early in the war, following the Battle of Christophsis, the Separatists witnessed the success of their Hyena-class bombers, resulting in an increase in production. Shortly afterwards, Hyena-class bombers appeared in Separatist flight wings across the galaxy. During the Battle of Lola Sayu, Jedi Generals Adi Gallia and Kit Fisto served as Wing Commanders, and led starfighter forces of a Republic task force against the Separatist defense fleet that protected Lola Sayu. Concurrently with the Clone Wars, shortly prior to an engagement above Primea between the Chiss Ascendancy against the Vak Combine and the Lioaoin Regime, Chiss Admiral Ar'alani noted that several wings of Vak fighters were not as provocative as full-class warships and that they did not want to escalate the conflict. During the Imperial Era, which saw the rise of rebellious activity and the Galactic Civil War, both the Galactic Empire and the Rebel Alliance deployed fighter wings. On Cymoon 1, scores of fighter wings protected the important Imperial Weapons Factory Alpha in concert with a full regiment and a system battle group in orbit. Due to the various number of ad hoc groups, however, efficacy was reduced due to communications breakdowns between the units. Imperial Star Destroyers were each equipped with one fighter wing, and one fighter wing was stationed on the Imperial II-class Star Destroyer Bellicose. The fighter wing served as the ship's complement, and included Beta Squadron. The entire fighter wing was lost due to the recklessness of the ship's commander, Tylux, though the Bellicose was soon destroyed as well. During the Battle of Vrogas Vas, the Rebel Alliance Amber Wing was stationed at the Rebel Refueling Base and was annihilated by Darth Vader. Many fighter wings served within Death Squadron, and participated in the Battle of Mako-Ta.Star Wars (2015) 53 The Ultima II launched a fighter wing during the Battle of Ab Dalis, though Imperial forces were defeated.Star Wars (2020) 15 The 181st Imperial Fighter Wing was deployed by the Galactic Empire, and was known for the red stripes that adorned their fighters. This menacing display inspired other Imperial squadrons to adopt similar designs.Star Wars: Squadrons Another unit was the famed elite 204th Imperial Fighter Wing, also known as "Shadow Wing." The 204th was led by Colonel Shakara Nuress. It consisted of Squadron Two, Squadron Three, Squadron Four, Squadron Five, Squadron Six, and another squadron.Shadow Fall: An Alphabet Squadron Novel After the Battle of Endor, the New Republic hunted the 204th, as it was considered a deadly threat to Republic operations. Following the Galactic Civil War during the New Republic Era and the Cold War, the New Republic utilized fighter wings, with Commander Poe Dameron serving as a wing commander. The Resistance, a private military force with roots to the New Republic and the dissolved Rebel Alliance, also utilized the position of wing commander, and one of its ships, the Anodyne, was equipped with one fighter wing. Conversely, the First Order also deployed fighter wings, with two serving as the complement of their Resurgent-class Battlecruisers. *The High Republic: Tempest Runner *Thrawn Ascendancy: Chaos Rising *A New Dawn *Thrawn: Treason *Vader - Dark Visions 2 *Star Wars (2015) 53 *Star Wars (2020) 15 *Star Wars (2020) 16 *Star Wars (2020) 36 *TIE Fighter 1 *TIE Fighter 2 *TIE Fighter 3 *TIE Fighter 4 *TIE Fighter 5 *Alphabet Squadron *Star Wars: Squadrons *Shadow Fall: An Alphabet Squadron Novel *Victory's Price: An Alphabet Squadron Novel *Before the Awakening *Lead by Example *Star Wars: TIE Fighter Deluxe Book and Model Set Category:Organizational military units