102735
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Evacuation_of_Kubindi
Evacuation of Kubindi
9545

During the Yuuzhan Vong War, in 26 ABY, the planet Kubindi was attacked by the Yuuzhan Vong. The invaders were drawn to Kubindi because of the Kubaz history of genetically engineered insects. However, most of the population evacuated before the attack, thanks to the efforts of the Dozen-and-Two Avengers, a group led by the Jedi Kyp Durron. thumb|left|180px|A [[Kubaz/Legends|Kubaz, a native of Kubindi]] In 25 ABY, the extra-galactic race of invaders, the Yuuzhan Vong, launched a massive conquest campaign directed against all worlds of the Galactic community.The New Jedi Order: Vector Prime Less than a year later, after being defeated at Fondor the Yuuzhan Vong Commander Nas Choka retaliated by swiftly conquering all of Hutt Space.The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia The Yuuzhan Vong forces then attacked Junkfort Station and the planet Kegan, after which they proceeded directly toward the planet Kubindi. The choice of such a target for the attack was explained by the fact that Kubindi's history of genetically engineering insect species had made the planet’s resources appealing to the Yuuzhan Vong. The peaceful, cultured Kubaz were no challenge to the Yuuzhan Vong; however, the Jedi Master Kyp Durron, who was stationed at Bothawui, had anticipated the attack and brought his own forces to the planet. Because the Yuuzhan Vong Lieutenant Mujmai Iinan had proposed that Kubindi could be taken with only half the usual number of coralskippers, Kyp's Dozen was able to single-handedly hold offThe New Essential Guide to Characters the reduced force long enough to allow all spaceworthy ships to flee offworld, and most of the population evacuated before the war fleet came within striking range. The displaced Kubaz had no choice but to join the inestimable ranks of refugees.The New Essential Guide to Alien Species The actions of Kyp Durron and the Dozen-and-Two Avengers during the evacuation of Kubindi had a positive effect on their image and were covered on the HoloNet. However, Jacen Solo regarded Durron's heroics as inappropriate and willful. Serious consequences awaited the Yuuzhan Vong lieutenant Mujmai Iinan. After learning of the loss of so many potential sacrifices, the Warmaster Tsavong Lah had Iinan sacrificed to the the gods following the battle. Soon afterward, the Senator Viqi Shesh, who sought to become the head of a new collaborationist government, contacted the Warmaster Tsavong Lah in an attempt to bring the war to a peaceful end. She described the simultaneous withdrawal from Kubindi and Rodia as a gesture of goodwill, but her proposal was ignored. Many of the worlds and star systems conquered at that time, including Kubindi, had been home to some of the most visible and active starfaring species. Whether by design on the part of the invaders or merely by coincidence, this strategy gave further fuel to the arguments of non-Human activists. The most paranoid believed that the New Republic leadership had somehow orchestrated a conspiracy to do what the Empire had failed to do – to kill all non-Humans. When the Yuuzhan Vong took control of Kubindi, they enslaved those left behind on the planet and forced them to assist in altering Kubindi's environment to grow food for the invaders. Later, the invaders exterminated nearly every insect species that had been cultivated by the Kubaz. This left the surviving population with little or no food, which, if left unchecked, would have wiped out every Kubaz on the planet within a year – if not within months. Kubindi was not liberated before the end of the war, when the surrender of the invaders was signed.The New Jedi Order: The Unifying Force Following the Yuuzhan Vong's defeat, the remaining Kubaz, greatly diminished in number, began the process of returning to their homeworld to rebuild their fractured society and to restore its former glory. The Battle of Kubindi was first mentioned in the sixth novel of the New Jedi Order series, The New Jedi Order: Balance Point, which was published in 2000. The event was briefly described, serving only as a tense backdrop for the narrative rather than receiving detailed coverage. Although the events of the novel took place less than a year after those of the series' first book, The New Jedi Order: Vector Prime, which was set in 25 ABY, the 2008 sourcebook The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia erroneously listed the date of the battle as 27 ABY. *The New Jedi Order: Balance Point *The New Jedi Order: Force Heretic III: Reunion *The New Jedi Order Sourcebook *The New Essential Guide to Characters *The New Essential Guide to Alien Species *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia *The Essential Atlas Category:Battles of Kubindi Category:Battles of the Yuuzhan Vong War