103104
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Junix%27s_Joint
Junix's Joint
5136

Junix's Joint, also known as the Anchorhead Cantina, was a thousand-years old cantina in Anchorhead on Tatooine after the end of the Clone Wars. The Anchorhead Cantina was the social and dining establishment of the city of Anchorhead on Tatooine during the Jedi Civil War. Around 3956 BBY the cantina was operated by Junix Nard, who was also the bartender. He employed two Jawa servers, and the establishment featured two Bith musicians and a Twi'lek dancer, as well as a Bith hologram. Nard also ran a small store, but had limited selection as Czerka only worried about keeping their own stores full. Jedi Knights Revan and Bastila Shan stopped by the cantina in 3956 BBY during their search for the Tatooine Star Map. There Bastila encountered her mother, Helena, whom she had not seen in many years. Also in the cantina at the time was a swoop racing veteran named Gandroff, a pazaak player named Furko Nellis, and two Czerka officers, as well as a handful of other patrons. It seemed that the bar was a place favored by Czerka officers to relax and worry about their job issues when not working at the Czerka office. Several local people were worrying about issues with the war at the time Revan visited, fearing that if Darth Malak would demolish Taris-a valuable world with billions of people- to defeat the Republic, what grim fate would come to Tatooine if he arrived. However, their fears were unfounded as the Sith Lord was infinitely more concerned with capturing Bastila Shan and conquering the Core Worlds than seizing a remote planet with nothing to offer but sand, savage natives and worthless ore. In the early days of the Galactic Empire, the cantina, by this point known as Junix's Joint, was staffed by a Duros bartender and his wife, Yoona. Jedi Master Obi-Wan Kenobi stopped at the cantina with the infant Luke Skywalker to ask for directions to the Lars homestead in 19 BBY, in the process becoming involved in a skirmish involving several of Jabba the Hutts thugs.Kenobi Junix's Joint first appeared in the 2003 video game Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic under the ownership of Junix Nard. In John Jackson Miller's 2013 novel Kenobi, Obi-Wan Kenobi visits an Anchorhead cantina called Junix's Joint. Miller confirmed on his Twitter page that the cantina appearing in Kenobi is the same one from Knights of the Old Republic, albeit under different ownership. *Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic *Star Wars: The Old Republic *Star Wars: The Old Republic: Rise of the Hutt Cartel *Kenobi *Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic: Prima's Official Strategy Guide *Star Wars: The Old Republic Explorer's Guide Category:Anchorhead locations Category:Cantinas