103135
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Trianii_Rangers
Trianii Rangers
5499

The Trianii Rangers was a Trianii paramilitary group renowned for the protection of Trianii Colonies. Adept combatants in space, with training also in practical warfare, something the Corporate Sector Authority took note of when they encountered unnaturally stiff resistance from their foes. During the skirmishes against the CSA, a few Trianii were captured and interrogated, and some were sent to the asteroid prison facility Stars' End before its destruction. Other threats that the Trianii Rangers have dealt with include the Kwapi pirates, the cyborg-maggots of Hydra, the Ugors, and the Hiitite Ravagers. The Trianii Rangers date back for centuries, beginning as a primitive frontier force that defended the farmers of Trian, a planet in the Tingel Arm, from the many dangers of the planet. Beginning after the establishment of a planet-wide government, the Rangers had become an above-the-law police corps that could arrest and execute suspected criminals on sight. When space travel was fully developed by the Trianii, they had no time to expand their power; they were too busy defending the Trianii from outside invaders. As the species created several new colonies on neighboring planets, the Rangers grew in size to patrol the hyperspace lanes that connected the multiple colonies. During this time, the Trianii Rangers beat back several attackers, such as the Kwapi pirates, the Ugors and the maggot-cyborgs of Hydra. With their noble motives and the apparent favor of the Trianii's pantheon, the Rangers became legendary among the Trianii. However, a far more powerful enemy soon presented itself in the shape of the Corporate Sector Authority, or CSA. It wished to annex the colonies and Trian. As they landed their troops on Fibuli, the home of one of the colonies, the Rangers began to fight back with all of their power. This originally amused the CSA executives, but they began to take far more seriously when the Rangers sent the severed hands of several officers. The conflict lasted for years, due mostly in part to the Rangers' hit-and-fade tactics. Many Rangers were captured and sent to Stars' End. A jailbreak at Stars' End and the collapse of the Galactic Empire brought an end to the war. The proud Rangers then began to oversee the colonization of nineteen new worlds in the Tingel Arm. The Rangers were controlled by a triumvirate of punctinos, the equivalent of admirals among the Rangers. Each punctino commanded one third of the Ranger's space, known as a trisector. In every trisector, the command structure was identical. In a trisector, all of the ships made up one fleet. The fleet was divided into task groups of fifty to seventy vessels, and were headed by the Trianii equivalent of a commodore known as a pyorn. Flotillas were smaller groups headed by a sinth, or captain. New recruits were usually given a gunner position on a patrol ship. Skilled recruits were usually given the pilot's position on the same ship. Unusually talented pilots were given the privilege of piloting a Kiree fighter. In the era of the Fibuli war against the CSA, new recruits were usually used as ground troops. They worked in groups of three to ten fighters under the command of a veteran Ranger. The Trianii Rangers were known to use RX4 Patrol Ships and Kiree starfighters, along with various captured freighters, as their primary weapons against enemies threatening Trianii Space. Unlike other Trianii, rangers typically wore light armor. When on the ground, Rangers frequently utilized close-combat weapons and combat, and many were trained in martial arts. However, many of the weapons used by the Rangers could be crude and unreliable due to the fact that they were often bought on the black market. *Han Solo at Stars' End *A Guide to the Star Wars Universe *Han Solo and the Corporate Sector Sourcebook *A Guide to the Star Wars Universe, Second Edition, Revised and Expanded *Pirates & Privateers *Alien Encounters *The Essential Guide to Alien Species *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia *Galaxy at War Category:Military units Category:Trianii culture