103295
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Temple_of_Waru
Temple of Waru
4367

Temple of Waru was a structure that housed Waru, a being from another dimension. Waru arrived in the galaxy due to a combination of the disturbances in the Force from a crystallizing star, and Hethrir's torturing of his prisoners, many of whom Hethrir sacrificed to Waru in the temple. Hethrir came to Waru in hopes of mastering the Force and as a reward he would sacrifice young Anakin Solo in the temple. However, Hethrir was destroyed during a confrontation with Han Solo, Leia Organa Solo, and Luke Skywalker. The temple of Waru was located on Crseih Station in the Crseih system. It was constructed at the center of a large crater that was encased in a translucent green dome. Ruins and large stones lined the edges of the crater, with several rough paths leading down to a small complex of builds which contained the temple compound.The Crystal Star The complex's buildings were gilt and brightly lit. Calligraphy, esoteric hieroglyphs, and intricate designs were traced in gold on the buildings' walls and entry facade. Wings of the temple curved around to form a quiet courtyard. Inside the temple was a wide, low theater where an altar holding Waru loomed over the auditorium. In 3 ABY, Crseih Station was moved to the Crseih system where it orbited a black hole and a crystallizing white dwarf star. The Empire used this station as a research station for experiments that tested the limits of realspace, hyperspace, and otherspace. Following the death of the reborn Emperor Palpatine in 11 ABY, Lord Hethrir of the Empire Reborn took over the station to find a way to expand his powers and extend his life.Aliens in the Empire The combination of his scientists' experimentation, his rituals, and the disturbances in the Force from the crystal star created a space-time distortion that yanked the extradimensional entity named Waru into the galaxy. Hethrir made a deal to feed Waru Force-users so he could attain the power to open a vortex to his home dimension. In exchange, Waru was to complete Hethrir's dark side transformation. A temple to Waru was built and Crseih Station was renamed to Asylum Station. News of Waru's healing abilities spread and attracted desperate pilgrims from across the galaxy. These pilgrims filled the aisles, seats, and resting pillows in the temple auditorium as they waited for Waru to heal them or their loved ones. Waru used a portion of his anti-Force powers to heal his followers, and replaced the energy he expended by consuming the life force of others. Waru made it appear that his failure to heal some were either accidents, or because the person he healed did not believe in him enough. Hethrir collected Force-sensitive youths from multiple backwater worlds to create a Dark Jedi army for his Empire Reborn. He brought his Empire Youth trainees to Waru's temple to be "purified". Those who survived were passed on to the Dark Jedi Desann for training, but many of the children were consumed by Waru. Around 14 ABY, Hethrir had abducted Anakin Solo and brought him to the temple to feed Waru. He was saved by his parents, and Waru attempted to consume Luke Skywalker instead. When this meal was denied to him, Waru turned on Hethrir and consumed him, gaining enough energy to return to his dimension. With Waru gone, his temple was likely abandoned after Crseih Station was moved to the Pakuuni system. *The Crystal Star Category:Temples