105177
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Shorty_(Jawa)
Shorty (Jawa)
3308

Shorty was the nickname Luke Skywalker gave to one of the leaders of the Jawas taken aboard Eye of Palpatine in 12 ABY. In 12 ABY, the Jawa nicknamed ‘Shorty’ was abducted alongside his clan from Tatooine by an automated Lambda-class Shuttle and taken to the hidden Imperial Dreadnaught known as the Eye of Palpatine. Aboard the vessel, Shorty and his clan were brainwashed by the Eye of Palpatine's artificial intelligence system into believing they were Stormtroopers. Due to an error in the brainwashing process, Shorty and other the Jawas could not overcome their natural kleptomania and began pillaging the ship for electronics and scraps; thus they were perceived by other brainwashed aliens aboard the Eye of Palpatine as mutinous crew members. The brainwashed Gamorrean clan known as the Gakfedd tribe eventually captured Shorty and attempted to execute the Jawa by pushing him into a shredder. Shorty was saved from the Gamorreans, however, when Luke Skywalker happened upon Shorty’s execution and saved him by pretending to be an Imperial Major, using his faux rank to claim that Shorty was actually a personal agent of his. Believing he owed the Jedi Master a debt of gratitude for saving his life, Shorty came to refer to Luke as his “Master” and attempted to help Luke navigate Eye of Palpatine’s labyrinth-like decks. Shorty eventually led Luke Skywalker to the long-lost lightsaber of Callista Ming, as well as the Eye of Palpatine’s Enclision grid, which was where Callista had dropped her lightsaber and died. Shorty’s guidance helped Luke discover that the spirit of Callista was secretly hiding within Eye of Palpatine’s computer terminals. After foiling ex-Emperor's Hand Rogana Ismaren’s plan to take control of Eye of Palpatine and use it to create a power base for herself, Luke ensured Shorty and the other abducted aliens aboard the Dreadnaught escaped the Eye of Palpatine before it exploded. Luke and his former Jedi pupil, Nichos Marr, programmed the same automated Lambda-class Shuttles that abducted Shorty and the other aliens to return them to their home planets.Children of the Jedi *Children of the Jedi Category:Jawas Category:Males