105369
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/3B3
3B3
8423

3B3 was a B1 battle droid that served in the Trade Federation Droid Army. During the invasion of the planet Naboo in 32 BBY, 3B3 discovered the Jedi Knights Qui-Gon Jinn and Obi-Wan Kenobi and the Gungan Jar Jar Binks sneaking into the capital city Theed. 3B3 ordered them to drop their weapons but was swiftly destroyed by Jinn. 3B3 was a B1-series battle droid that served in the Droid Army of the Trade Federation during the invasion of the planet Naboo in 32 BBY. 3B3 participated in the capture of Naboo's capital city Theed. During the battle, 3B3 encountered the Jedi Knights Qui-Gon Jinn and Obi-Wan Kenobi, who had traveled to Theed via the Solleu River to rescue Naboo's queen, Padmé Amidala. They also ended up needing to pull their Gungan companion Jar Jar Binks out by an ascension gun cable connected to their tribubble bongo. 3B3 ordered the Jedi to stop and aimed a blaster pistol at them. Jinn turned and quicklyStar Wars: Episode I The Phantom Menace Illustrated Screenplay yet casuallyThe Phantom Menace Mighty Chronicles adaptation decapitated the droid with his lightsaber while 3B3 simultaneously fired its blaster, hitting the grappling hook cable and sending the bongo over a waterfall. Kenobi looked at the droid's body as it lay to the ground.Dangers of the Core 3B3's name was a shortened version of its unique identification code, which was usually applied by Trade Federation technicians.The New Essential Guide to Droids Like all B1 battle droids, 3B3 stood at 1.91 meters tall, had masculine programming, and had tan plating. 3B3 was created for the prequel trilogy film , written by George Lucas. The droid appeared in drafts of the screenplay but was cut from the finished film, which premiered on May 19, 1999.Star Wars Year By Year: A Visual History, New Edition 3B3's first appearance was in the picture book Dangers of the Core, an adaptation of a portion of The Phantom Menace that was written by Jim Thomas, illustrated by Boris Vallejo, and published in April 1999. thumb|right|300px|3B3 points a blaster at Jar Jar Binks in Dangers of the Core. 3B3's encounter with the Jedi is portrayed in slightly different ways across adaptations of The Phantom Menace. In Dangers of the Core, 3B3 arrives and is pictured standing in the Solleu River just as Kenobi pulls Jinn ashore. After Binks arrives, 3B3 points a blaster at him before being bisected by Jinn. In the Mighty Chronicles adaptation, written by John Whitman and published on May 3, 1999, 3B3 runs into the Jedi on a riverbank just outside Theed rather than inside the city itself. In Episode I: Obi-Wan Kenobi, a one-shot comic written by Henry Gilroy and illustrated by Martin Egeland, and published on June 2, 1999, the droid tells the Jedi to "hold it" rather than to drop their weapons as portrayed in other sources. The deleted scene in which Jinn, Kenobi, and Binks climb out of the Solleu River was included in the DVD of The Phantom Menace, DVD released on October 16, 2001, but 3B3 did not appear in the sequence. *The Phantom Menace Mighty Chronicles adaptation *Dangers of the Core *Episode I: Obi-Wan Kenobi *Star Wars: Episode I The Phantom Menace Illustrated Screenplay *Star Wars: Episode I Insider's Guide *The New Essential Guide to Droids *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:B1-series battle droids Category:Droids of the Trade Federation Category:Droids with unspecified pronouns