106101
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Plant_Surge
Plant Surge
4790

Plant Surge, known as Consitor Sato in traditional High Galactic, was a Force power that was based around drawing on the Force and channeling of life energy into plants. Plant Surge, or Consitor Sato, was a light side Force power which allowed the user to improve the plant's rate of growth and even affect the manner in which it grew. In battle, the ability to control a plant's growth with the Force could be used to cause plants to grow with incredible speed directly under the user's control, causing plant life to grow and twist around opponents, ensnaring anyone who was not quick enough to avoid it. Once ensnared, the victim would find it difficult to dodge and fight, and nearly impossible to move unless they escaped through force or finesse. The Jedi used this to end conflicts with minimal violence. Kar Vastor, Lor pelek to the people of Haruun Kal, often used this power subliminally during his travels across the vast jungles of the planet, clearing plants and vines from his way to avoid harm from the many dangerous flora species. Vastor also used this power actively during a confrontation with fellow Korunnai, and Jedi Master, Mace Windu, binding the Jedi with a variety of vines in an attempt to restrain him. This attempt ultimately backfired, as Windu used the vines' momentum to continue his attack on Vastor.Shatterpoint Fellow Master Shaak Ti used this technique in conjunction with animal friendship against Galen Marek during their duel on Felucia, commanding the local sarlacc to lash out at the Sith apprentice with its feeding tentacles. Marek ignored or knocked away most attempts at attack in this method.Star Wars: The Force Unleashed graphic novel The Jedi Master known as the Dark Woman used this power on Cophrigin V to restrain Darth Vader while dueling in order to strike him down. Vader proved too difficult to contain, however, and cut himself free in order to kill her. Abeloth, Bringer of Chaos, could control the plants on her home planet, using them to her advantage against those who would enter her domain.Fate of the Jedi: Abyss This ability was among the favorite Alter abilities of Jedi Seer Sabla-Mandibu. *Shatterpoint *Star Wars: The Force Unleashed graphic novel *Star Wars: Ewoks—Shadows of Endor *Fate of the Jedi: Abyss *Fate of the Jedi: Allies *Legacy (2006) 15 *Legacy (2006) 25 *Legacy (2006) 26 *Power of the Jedi Sourcebook *Jedi Academy Training Manual *The Jedi Path: A Manual for Students of the Force Category:Alter powers Category:Light side powers