107303
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Sith_dreadnaught
Sith dreadnaught
5379

The Sith dreadnaught, also known as a Sith Personnel Carrier was a classification of warship used by the Sith Empire during the Great Hyperspace War. These dreadnaughts resembled lanvaroks in appearance. They carried six Sith drop ships that were able to deploy troops to ground invasions, holding sixty troops or two Sith war behemoths each. In 5000 BBY, two Sith dreadnaughts, Harbinger and Omen, were mining Lignan ore on a moon of Phaegon III for use in the upcoming Battle of Kirrek, when they were ambushed by Jedi Master Relin Druur and Druur's apprentice, Drev Hassin. Hassin sacrificed himself by crashing the Jedi's Infiltrator starfighter into Harbinger bridge, causing the dreadnaught to crash into Omen right as the two ships jumped into hyperspace. This caused the Omen to crash-land on the remote world of Kesh, where its survivors formed the Lost Tribe of Sith, while the Harbinger entered an unstable hyperspace tunnel and traveled through time to 41.5 ABY. The latter was shortly after destroyed by Druur. Sometime between 3959 BBY and 3956 BBY, a Galactic Republic-allied Zabrak mercenary named Jamoh Hogra raided one of these capital ships. He completed his mission aboard the starship and escaped, but feared for his life, purchasing a heavy, unique suit of battle armor to protect himself from Sith assassins that might be after him. Around 41.5 ABY, the Lost Tribe of Sith, with the help of Ship, a Sith Meditation Sphere, began to form a Sith armada, and managed to repair the Omen for use in their fleet. *Tales of the Jedi – The Fall of the Sith Empire 2 *Lost Tribe of the Sith: Precipice *Lost Tribe of the Sith: Skyborn *Tales of the Jedi – The Fall of the Sith Empire 3 *Tales of the Jedi – The Fall of the Sith Empire 4 *Tales of the Jedi – The Fall of the Sith Empire 5 *Lost Tribe of the Sith: Paragon *Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic II: The Sith Lords *Darth Bane: Path of Destruction *Crosscurrent *Riptide *Fate of the Jedi: Omen *Fate of the Jedi: Abyss *The Essential Chronology *Jedi vs. Sith: The Essential Guide to the Force *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia *The Essential Reader's Companion *Star Wars: The Old Republic Encyclopedia Category:Dreadnought classes Dreadnaught