108394
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Vergesso_Base
Vergesso Base
11820

Vergesso Base was an asteroid base on Vergesso Prime owned by Ororo Transportation and used as a shadowport by the Alliance to Restore the Republic. Vergesso Base had an artificial breathable atmosphere and life support ideal for humanoids. It followed a cycle of 1 standard year and 24 standard hours. The Base was divided into several sections, each catering to a specific area of station operation. The Facility was the uppermost layer of the station, full of hangars, cargo handling and storage facilities, and repair services. The Life catered to the crews visiting the station, including quarters, merchant facilities, amusements, and bars. The Base Operations Center situated at the center of the asteroid, was the heart of the station, and was responsible for base command and control. It was equipped with a Stellar-class starport and tractor beams used to manipulate companion asteroids and keep the Asteroid Hangars hidden. The base maintained a defensive force of a pair of escort EF76 Nebulon-B escort frigates, Markess Narn and Childerly; and several starfighters including Gauntlets, Zebras, Z-95 Headhunters, and IRDs (stolen from the CSA). Visiting/stationed small capital ships and starfighters theoretically contributed to the Base strength; specifically Rebels were ordered to defend the base in case of any attack, recognising its important position for the Alliance. The surface of the asteroid was equipped with several weapons such as turbolasers. Natori Association provided soldiers for internal security and defense in case of an intrusion; Natori platoons manned the frigates and the surface defenses. The force was intended for pirates and rival organizations, not Imperial forces. Indeed, Ororo was bribing the High Commander of the Oversector, the Grand Moff Kintaro, who ordered the sectorial ISB to neglect investigating Vergesso. The asteroid was first used as a survey installation for Dr. Ecile Vergesso who moved there to study the system. After that project, the base was taken by a band of pirates, and then smugglers used it as an exchange point, until Ororo Transportation started using it a shadowport. Natori, which was another Tenloss branch, except from providing security, used the base as local headquarters and mustering station. During the Galactic Civil War Ororo invited the Alliance to Restore the Republic to use its smuggling base. The Alliance was concerned about cooperating with a criminal organization; however the Alliance was desperate for any outside assistance, such as the facilities the Base provided. They agreed after they discovered only one business connection to Tenloss. The Alliance considered Vergesso a big asset; Oponni Narthrup acted as the general Rebel administrator in Lybeya, and official liaison with Ororo. The Alliance used the base as an allied port where they could resupply and refuel their ships; SpecForces bought weapons there for their missions, and it was a safe haven for Rebel privateers. Even though the cooperation was uneasy, and the Rebels felt uncomfortable coexisting with thugs, mercenaries and drug dealers, it saved the cost of maintaining an actual port, and the Alliance obliged itself to defend it in case of attack. It attracted criminals, privateers, Rebels and businessbeings from all the galaxy. Tons of illegal cargo--from stolen, plundered and black market goods to spice and bootleg holos--passed through its storehouses and were about 10% of the money exchaned on the base. Some smugglers used its storage space as drop-off point. Spies and Information brokers were selling Imperial, Alliance, corporate or local intelligence. Mercenaries, as well as Rebels, could find weapons there. Galindas Exports used Vergesso to supply materiel to the Rebels, hundreds of tons each standard month. Ship weapons could be upgraded at its hangars. Although Ororo didn't allow the presence of tanks or other artillery, deals for delivery could be made with contacts. With the best stocked spice market in the Outer Rim Territories, Vergesso functioned also as an exchange point for legal and illegal spices, attracting smugglers and black marketeers from all across the galaxy and spice users from all the region bought from D'ring'my. Not all smugglers operating on the base belonged to Ororo; those directly supplied Ororo ships with spice, mixed with legitimate cargo. About half of the smugglers though worked for other companies or were independent speculators, who sold spice at market (such as in The Life) to Ororo or other parties. Spice was shipped out either on Ororo or other smuggling ships; Ororo made even 25% more per each deal. Imperial Intelligence agents throughout the Outer Rim also ran through Vergesso in secret, both to lose any trackers, and to monitor suspected Rebel activity. Although the Grand Moff Kintaro was bribed to ignore Vergesso, Imperial Intelligence watched over the base's activities. Because of the ongoing investigation (and the base's usage as a transfer point), the Ubiqtorate neglected reporting the base to the Military until Prince Xizor directed the Emperor Palpatine against the base. The base was used by the Azzameens to transfer stolen goods to the Alliance. When Aeron Azzameen decided to stay for a "vacation," Darth Vader's Death Squadron attacked the system in the Battle of the Bajic Shipyards. Aeron was able to evacuate with the help of her brother Ace before it was destroyed.Star Wars: Shadows of the Empire novelStar Wars: X-Wing Alliance In the later years of the Civil War, parts of the base were repairable and eventually it passed to other hands. *Star Wars: X-Wing Alliance *Star Wars: Shadows of the Empire novel *Star Wars: Shadows of the Empire abridged audiobook *Star Wars: Shadows of the Empire junior novelization *The Secrets of Star Wars: Shadows of the Empire *Shadows of the Empire Sourcebook |cards= }} *Shadows of the Empire Planets Guide *Pirates & Privateers *Anakin Skywalker: The Story of Darth Vader *Star Wars: X-Wing Alliance: Prima's Official Strategy Guide *Star Wars: Imperial Handbook: A Commander's Guide *Strongholds of Resistance Category:Alliance to Restore the Republic military bases Category:Asteroid bases Category:Shadowports