108303
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Holocron_of_Darth_Krayt
Holocron of Darth Krayt
5421

The holocron of Darth Krayt was a Sith holocron created by the Dark Lord of the Sith Darth Krayt around 130 ABY to store the sum total of his knowledge and beliefs, though it was still incomplete at the height of the Sith-Imperial War. The holocron's contents included information known only to Krayt himself and a speech he recorded shortly after creating the holocron. thumb|right|200px|Darth Krayt, the holocron's creator The holocron of Darth Krayt was a Sith holocron created by the Dark Lord of the Sith Darth Krayt of the One Sith around 130 ABY, whose existence was known only to Krayt himself and his aide Darth Wyyrlok. Created to store all of Krayt's knowledge, beliefs and philosophies, Darth Krayt's holocron was a repository of great knowledge and contained secrets and lore known only to Krayt himself. Nevertheless, the holocron was still incomplete as of the height of the Sith-Imperial War&mdash;a conflict that ended around 138 ABY.Legacy — War 6 Among the holocron's contents was a sermon by Krayt recorded around 130 ABY, outlining the impact of the Yuuzhan Vong invaders on the galaxy, starting with their invasion of the galaxy, and recounting Krayt and the Fel Empire's scheme to destroy the Galactic Alliance. Krayt's speech also mentioned his familiarity with the old Jedi Order and how he planned to bend the galaxy to his will. The holocron's contents could be analyzed for signs of weakness and possibly even uncover secret plans if it fell into the possession of the Galactic Alliance or the New Jedi Order's Hidden Temple. There was a possibility that it would cause a coup within Krayt's One Sith if his rivals in the order became aware of its existence. The holocron was created by Darth Krayt around 130 ABY after the Sith Lord discovered that his body was in an even worse state than he previously thought. A section of the holocron was recorded two days after Krayt's realization, shortly before the massacre of the Jedi Academy on the planet Ossus. Despite its large repository of information, the holocron was not yet complete by the height of the Sith-Imperial War. The holocron of Darth Krayt was first mentioned in the first issue of the Star Wars: Legacy comic series. The issue was written by John Ostrander and Jan Duursema and published by Dark Horse Comics on June 21, 2006. *Legacy (2006) 1 *Legacy Era Campaign Guide Category:Darth Krayt's Galactic Empire Category:Sith holocrons