108505
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Vacuum_flower
Vacuum flower
3454

Vacuum flowers were a type of food served aboard the transport starship Reasonable Doubt. In 19 BBY Jedi Padawan Whie Malreaux purchased five orders of vacuum flowers for him and his companions on board to eat. The food, however, ended up being dropped and went uneaten. Vacuum flowers were a food which was edible to Humans, Grans and members of Jedi Grand Master Yoda's species. In the year 19 BBY, vacuum flowers were served in the cafeteria onboard the Kut-Rate Kruise Lines companies' transport starship Reasonable Doubt. While traveling to the planet Vjun on the Reasonable Doubt, the Jedi Padawan Whie Malreaux ordered vacuum flowers for him and his four Jedi companions on board, Master Jai Maruk and his apprentice Tallisibeth Enwandung-Esterhazy, both of whom were Human, Gran Master Maks Leem and Grand Master Yoda. He asked for five orders of vacuum flowers along with a large serving of bubble-and-squirt; six Blasteroids!; double-fried chili dumplings; a bucket of crispy feet; a half bucket of extra gummy rank, and five drinks. As he was suppose to be hiding his identity as a Jedi he decided he couldn't used the Force to help carry the food and instead accepted the help of a droid. The droid turned out to be Fidelis&ndash;a servant of House Malreaux of which Whie was part&ndash;and revealed Count Dooku was at the family's home, Château Malreaux, on Vjun. This information caused Malreaux to leave the cafeteria in order tell his companions and left Fidelis to carry all of the food. When the droid caught up with the padawan though, Yoda, who was disguised as an R2-series astromech droid, bumped into him and caused all of the food to be dropped. Vacuum flowers first appeared in Yoda: Dark Rendezvous a novel written by Sean Stewart and released in 2004. While the book doesn't show the flowers being eaten by a Gran, Human or Yoda's species the dish is ordered for them and so this article assumes they could. *Yoda: Dark Rendezvous Category:Food