108786
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Sith_Citadel_(Ziost)
Sith Citadel (Ziost)
5843

The Sith Citadel, known to the reconstituted Sith Empire as the Great Citadel, was a fortress built by the old Sith Empire on Ziost sometime before the Great Hyperspace War. It served as its capital city and the meeting place of the Sith Council. Erected high atop a precarious cliff on the planet Ziost, the Sith Citadel emerged above the ground, but also extended well into the planet's surface. The upper levels were made from cheerless gray granite, while the lower levels were little more than frozen ice caves.The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia It was a vergence that emanated dark side energy. The kilometer-long roadway that led to the citadel's main entrance was made of dressed black stone slabs. The Sith Citadel was constructed long before the Great Hyperspace War by the Sith Empire after abandoning its former capital world of Korriban. It was initially intended to be the palace and focal point of the empire, establishing Ziost as the new seat of Sith power. thumb|right|240px|The Sith Citadel of Ajunta Pall, ancient capital city of the Sith Empire Following Ajunta Pall's arrival on Korriban with his Dark Jedi and the creation of a new Sith Empire, he had his Citadel built on top of the palace of Hakagram Graush. The capital was abandoned after the Sith defeat during the Great Hyperspace War after being forced to abandon Ziost, among other worlds such as Korriban. However, the empire was not defeated. In secret, a new empire was established on the new capital world of Dromund Kaas. The new metropolitan center, respectively named "Kaas City," thereby replaced the Sith Citadel as the primary city in the empire. Around 3680 BBY, the Sith Empire returned to Republic space to initiate a bloody war and, at some point, managed to recolonize its former capital world. However, instead of reestablishing the citadel as the planetary capital, the Sith constructed the city of New Adasta to replace it, overshadowing the ancient castle. During the New Sith Wars, Brotherhood of Darkness member Seviss Vaa researched the worlds of the Sith Empire, and mentioned the Sith Citadel in his recordings in the Telos Holocron. Millennia later, Lumiya would visit it some time before the Second Galactic Civil War. Ben Skywalker visited this citadel with Kiara Olvidan while looking for the Amulet of Kalara. *Tales of the Jedi – The Golden Age of the Sith 3 *Tales of the Jedi – The Golden Age of the Sith 4 *Star Wars: The Old Republic *Legacy of the Force: Betrayal *Legacy of the Force: Exile *Fate of the Jedi: Ascension *Star Wars: The Ultimate Visual Guide *Jedi vs. Sith: The Essential Guide to the Force *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia *Book of Sith: Secrets from the Dark Side Category:Sith fortresses Category:Vergences Category:Ziost locations