108888
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Medrit_Vasur
Medrit Vasur
3876

Medrit Vasur was a Mandalorian Human male who was a soldier and a blacksmith. His husband, the Mandalorian bounty hunter Goran Beviin, was often away for long stretches while Medrit remained on Mandalore. Their long, happy marriage spanned from well before 25 ABY until after 40 ABY. Early in the Yuuzhan Vong War, they also adopted Dinua Jeban, a fourteen-year-old Mandalorian war orphan. After Sintas Vel was awakened from carbon freeze, he let Hayca Mekket know she might be needed when Boba Fett let loose his lack of confidence in Beluine's ability. When Jaina Solo came to train under Fett, Vasur forged the Mandalore a set of his own beskar upper body armor, though Goran had wanted a set of greaves made as well. He would later be told of the true identity of Gotab by Solo but believed the matter closed after learning he had willingly chosen to be a Mando'ad instead of a Jedi. First mentioned with the name Medrit in the 2006 e-novella Boba Fett: A Practical Man by Karen Traviss,Boba Fett: A Practical Man the character first appeared in Traviss' 2007 novel Legacy of the Force: Sacrifice. Although the Dramatis Personae at the beginning of Legacy of the Force: Sacrifice identifies him as Medrit Beviin, the actual text of the novel refers to him as Medrit Vasur, as does Traviss' novel Legacy of the Force: Revelation,Legacy of the Force: Revelation which was published on February 26, 2008. On December 9 of that year, entry The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia contained an entry for him under "Vasur, Medrit," while the 2012 reference book The Essential Reader's Companion calls him Medrit Beviin.The Essential Reader's Companion Medrit's gender has been specified in Legends as male, making Goran and Medrit the first explicitly gay couple in Star Wars literature. *Boba Fett: A Practical Man *Legacy of the Force: Sacrifice *Legacy of the Force: Revelation *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia *The Essential Reader's Companion Category:Blacksmiths Category:Clan Beviin Category:Humans Category:LGBTQIA+ individuals Category:Males