109205
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Tulak_Hord%27s_holocron
Tulak Hord's holocron
3291

Tulak Hord's holocron was a Sith holocron that the Dark Lord of the Sith Tulak Hord created to pass on his technique of lightsaber combat. In 3956 BBY, during the Jedi Civil War, Revan and the crew of the Ebon Hawk infiltrated the Korriban Sith Academy. While Revan competed with the other students to gain prestige, a Sith acolyte named Lashowe recruited him to help recover Tulak Hord's holocron from the Sith Lord's tomb. Revan and Lashowe fought and defeated a pack of Tuk'ata, and they pulled the holocron from the Tuk'ata queen's belly. Reports concerning the holocron's ultimate fate differ. Lashowe refused to share the prestige for finding the holocron and so fought Revan to the death&mdash;a confrontation which Lashowe did not survive. Others say that Revan refused to fight her for the holocron and Lashowe brought it to Uthar Wynn, the Master of the Academy. There is a discrepancy with the date of both when Hord ruled the Sith Empire and when lightsabers took preference among the Sith. Though it is said that he ruled between 6,900 BBY and 5,100 BBY, Jedi vs. Sith: The Essential Guide to the Force states that in 5000 BBY Marka Ragnos passed away as the reigning Dark Lord. Naga Sadow ruled as Dark Lord thereafter, until his own demise. Furthermore, in Star Wars: Tales of the Jedi – The Golden Age of the Sith, both Naga Sadow and Ludo Kressh duel not with lightsabers (for the mantle of Dark Lord no less), but with ancient Sith swords. Other Sith Lords of the time were also known to possess alloyed swords. These timeline conflicts have yet to be resolved, although one possible explanation is that Ludo Kressh and Naga Sadow opted to use Sith warblades despite having access to lightsabers. *Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic *Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic II: The Sith Lords *Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic: Prima's Official Strategy Guide Category:Sith holocrons Category:Tulak Hord's artifacts