109702
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Nyrat_Agira
Nyrat Agira
9591

}} Nyrat Agira was a human member of the Zealots of Psusan cult who was a patron of the Outlander Club on the planet Coruscant in 22 BBY. While at the club, the cultist spoke and drank with three other humans before turning to stare when the Jedi Knight Obi-Wan Kenobi slashed the bounty hunter Zam Wesell with his lightsaber. Agira then identified a weak-minded individual to convert to the Zealots. The human Nyrat Agira was a member of the Zealots of Psusan, a fast-growing cult. In 22 BBY,Star Wars: Timelines dates the events of to 22 BBY. Agira was a patron of the Outlander Club in the Uscru Entertainment District of the planet Coruscant.Star Wars: The Visual Encyclopedia Agira was stood with three other human patrons near the club's bar when the Jedi Knight Obi-Wan Kenobi and Padawan Anakin Skywalker entered the establishment in search of the bounty hunter Zam Wesell. Agira spoke and drank with the other humans as Kenobi made his way to the bar, turning to stare when the Jedi turned and slashed Wesell with his lightsaber as she attempted to sneak up behind him. After Skywalker told the patrons to return to their drinks and disregard the "Jedi business," he and Kenobi dragged Wesell outside to interogate. As they did so, Agira identified a weak-minded individual to convert to the Zealots of Psusan and began moving away from the bar with them. Agira had light skin with a black navel tattoo, blue eyes, and red hair worn in a curled solloops hairstyle while at the club. While at the club, the cultist wore a flamboyant red outfit. thumb|right|300px|alt=A shot from Attack of the Clones shows Nyrat Agira stood talking with two other Outlander Club patrons behind Obi-Wan Kenobi, Elan Sel'Sabagno, and Kalyn Farnmir, who are stood at the club's bar.|Nyrat Agira (right) appeared in Attack of the Clones. Nyrat Agira appeared in the prequel trilogy film Star Wars: Episode II Attack of the Clones, which was released on May 16, 2002.Star Wars Year By Year: A Visual History, Updated and Expanded Edition Agira's scenes were filmed on Stage 3 at Fox Studios, Sydney on July 17, 2000.Creating the Worlds of Star Wars: 365 Days Shortly after the scenes were shot, director George Lucas and Lucasfilm created the names for Agira and many of the other extras during production in 2000 in anticipation of spin-off fiction or licensing possibilites. In the current Star Wars canon, the character was first identified as "Agira Nyrat" in the 2016 reference book Star Wars: Complete Locations. The name Agira Nyrat was also used in the 2018 reference book Star Wars: The Complete Visual Dictionary, New Edition. However, Star Wars: Complete Locations, New Edition, a 2025 updated re-released of Complete Locations, altered the page that the character appeared on to identify them as Nyrat Agira.Star Wars: Complete Locations, New Edition The new material in the book was written by Jason Fry and Emily Shkoukani. }} This article assumes the newer source to be correct. thumb|left|250px|alt=A close up of Nyrat Agira from the StarWars.com databank.|Nyrat Agira's name was first revealed on the StarWars.com Databank after being created during production for licensing and spin-off material purposes. In the Star Wars Legends continuity, the character was revealed prior to the film's release in "Color Me Star Wars," the seventh episode of the StarWars.com on location series, which was posted on September 12, 2000. The character's name was then revealed in an entry in the StarWars.com Databank that was published by June 21, 2002. Agira first appeared in the young readers book Jango Fett: Bounty Hunter, written by Eric Arnold, illustrated by Valerie Reckert,Jango Fett: Bounty Hunter and released on April 23, 2002. Agira appeared as an unlockable character titled "Female Coruscant Citizen 1" in the Twilight of the Republic Play Set of the non-canon video game Disney Infinity 3.0, which released in 2015. The game also included an unlockable character titled "Female Coruscant Citizen 3" who was identical to Agira but with blue clothing and hair rather than red.Disney Infinity 3.0 *Disney Infinity 3.0 *Ultimate Star Wars *Star Wars: Complete Locations *Star Wars: The Visual Encyclopedia *Star Wars: The Complete Visual Dictionary, New Edition *Ultimate Star Wars, New Edition *Star Wars: Complete Locations, New Edition Category:Humans Category:Individuals of unspecified gender Category:Individuals with unspecified pronouns Category:Members of the Zealots of Psusan