112063
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Shadda-Bi-Boran_(species)
Shadda-Bi-Boran (species)
3446

The Shadda-Bi-Boran were a race of green-skinned humanoids indigenous to the planet Shadda-Bi-Boran. A peaceful sun-worshipping civilization, the Shadda-Bi-Boran faced extinction in 43 BBY when their system's star began to die, depriving them of radiation without which they could not produce vital enzymes. The plight of the Shadda-Bi-Boran became a galactic cause célèbre, but all efforts to relocate them ended in failure, and the last of the species died in 38 BBY. The Shadda-Bi-Boran were a humanoid species distinguished by their large black eyes and green skin. They were dependent on unique radiation emitted by their star, Shadda, to produce vital enzymes to break down toxins. Eons before the Clone Wars, the star Shadda expanded into a red giant. The cooling star emitted a unique radiation that gave life to the people of the planet Shadda-Bi-Boran. The species became a peaceful society ruled by sun priests. Tragedy struck the Shadda-Bi-Boran in 43 BBY when it was discovered that Shadda was cooling into a white dwarf and would soon undergo a supernova. Because the Shadda-Bi-Boran thrived on radiation emitted by the star, they could not be evacuated to just any world. The Shadda-Bi-Boran's plight became a galactic cause célèbre, with armbands and kerchiefs of handcrafted Shadda silk becoming popular symbols of concern and solidarity. The Refugee Relief Movement attempted to locate planets with similar stars to relocate the Shadda-Bi-Boran; a young Padmé Amidala of Naboo assisted in relocating a colony which included N'a-kee-tula, whom Padmé befriended offworld. However their efforts were in vain; entire colonies died off within months due to their failure to adapt. The Republic made a last offer to the Shadda-Bi-Boran to put them in stasis or to be frozen in carbonite until a new home could be found, but it was refused. The last of the species died in 38 BBY. *The Essential Atlas Category:Extinct sentient species Category:Outer Rim Territories sentient species