112034
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/N%27a-kee-tula
N'a-kee-tula
7811

N'a-kee-tula was a Shadda-Bi-Boran child from the planet Shadda-Bi-Boran. In 38 BBY, the Shadda-Bi-Borans were evacuated from their dying homeworld by the Refugee Relief Movement, including the Naboo Padme Naberrie, who felt N'a-kee-tula was a special child. N'a-kee-tula ultimately died, along with the rest of his species, as they were unable to adapt to life on other planets. thumb|righy|250px|Shadda-Bi-Boran, N'a-kee-tula's doomed homeworld N'a-kee-tula was a Shadda-Bi-Boran child who lived on the planet Shadda-Bi-Boran. His name meant "sweetheart" in the Shadda-Bi language. The Shadda-Bi-Boran species relied on a toxin-purifying enzyme that was only activated by the light of the sun Shadda,The Essential Atlas which, at the time of N'a-kee-tula's childhood, had entered a white dwarf phase and was about to implode, which would cause the planet to freeze over. In 38 BBY, as the planet's demise began, members of the Refugee Relief Movement arrived to attempt to evacuate the population to systems with stars that they hoped would have the same purifying effect on the Shadda-Bi-Borans as Shadda. One of the volunteers in relocating the planet's children was the seven-year-old Naboo Padmé Naberrie, who bonded with N'a-kee-tula and believed he was a special child. At one point during the evacuation, Naberrie, N'a-kee-tula, and dozens of Shadda-Bi-Boran posed for a holograph recording where Amidala and N'a-kee-tula rocked back and forth together. N'a-kee-tula was unable to survive away from his homeworld and perished, as did the rest of his species. Naberrie kept the holograph of her and N'a-kee-tula at her family home on the planet Naboo. In 22 BBY, Naberrie, whose surname by then was Amidala after her service as Queen of Naboo, was packing clothes in her room along with the Jedi Anakin Skywalker. He enquired about the holograph, and Amidala explained her time in the Refugee Relief Movement and spoke somberly of N'a-kee-tula's memory. Naberrie described N'a-kee-tula as full of life, like the other Shadda-Bi-Boran children. He had green skin and black eyes. During the recording of the holograph with Naberrie, N'a-kee-tula wore a yellow shirt. N'a-kee-tula was originally pictured in a holograph in a deleted scene in the prequel trilogy film Star Wars: Episode II Attack of the Clones, written and directed by George Lucas. His holograph was featured in the film's novelization written by R. A. Salvatore and in the illustrated version of the film's screenplay included in The Art of Star Wars Episode II: Attack of the Clones,The Art of Star Wars Episode II: Attack of the Clones both of which were published on April 23, 2002, prior to the film's premiere on May 16 later that year.Star Wars Year By Year: A Visual History, New Edition The deleted scene featuring N'a-kee-tula's holograph, and thus the first visual depiction of the character, was included on the DVD release of Attack of the Clones, which was released on November 12, 2002. The deleted scene depicts only two Shadda-Bi-Borans in the holograph, and although Amidala's dialogue refers to N'a-kee-tula as the one she is holding, in the image she has her arms around both children, leaving it unclear which one is N'a-kee-tula. The novelization describes dozens of children participating in the holograph, and this article follows the novel's portrayal. *Star Wars: Episode II Attack of the Clones novelization *The Art of Star Wars Episode II: Attack of the Clones *The New Essential Guide to Characters Category:Individuals of unspecified gender Category:Individuals with he/him pronouns Category:Shadda-Bi-Borans