112084
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Hela_Madiry
Hela Madiry
6672

|masters= |apprentices= }} Hela Madiry was a female clerk in the accounting division at the Grand Army of the Republic logistics center on the planet Coruscant. When the Clone Wars, a galactic conflict between the Galactic Republic and the Confederacy of Independent Systems, broke out, she secretly relayed information to a Separatist terror cell operating on Coruscant. In 22 BBY, she was killed by Ordo Skirata, a Null-class Advanced Recon Commando (ARC) working with a Republic anti-terror strike team, after her role as a spy was discovered by his group. With assistance from another Null-class ARC, Mereel Skirata, Ordo assassinated her with two shots to the head using a modified Verpine rifle while she was out having lunch. Hela Madiry was a woman who lived on Coruscant, the capital planet of the Galactic Republic. When the Clone Wars broke out between the Republic and the Confederacy of Independent Systems in 22 BBY, Madiry was employed as a clerk in the accounting division of a Grand Army of the Republic (GAR) logistics center located at Coruscant Command HQ. She had several distant cousins on Jabiim, a planet that underwent a coup and whose congress later declared support for the Separatists.Republic 55 At some point during the war, Hela began secretly providing information about GAR troop movements to a Separatist terror cell operating on Coruscant. thumb|right|180px|Ordo Skirata, a Null-class Advanced Recon Commando Her identity as a mole was uncovered following a series of terrorist bombings targeting military facilities on Coruscant. The revelation came from the Gurlanin shapeshifter Jinart, who had been spying on the Grand Army logistics center for her own agenda. In exchange for the Republic's agreement to remove its Human settlers from her homeworld of Qiilura, Jinart provided Kal Skirata, the leader of a Republic anti-terror strike team, with information on all active Separatist spies within the logistics center. Following this, Ordo Skirata, a Null-class Advanced Recon Commando (ARC) and a member of Kal Skirata's strike force, went to the logistics center to assassinate Madiry. He found her in a nearby public courtyard, reading a holozine and eating a mealbread stick for lunch. Disguised as a regular clone trooper, Ordo hid his modified Verpine rifle inside a document holder, approached calmly, and shot her twice in the head and once in the chest, killing her instantly. To cover his tracks, he was assisted by another Null-class ARC, Mereel Skirata, who deactivated the holocamera in the area before Ordo carried out the kill. Madiry had the look of an unassuming civilian approaching retirement. She preferred spending her lunchtime at a nearby public courtyard rather than the logistics center cafeteria. Hela Madiry first appeared in 2006 in Republic Commando: Triple Zero, the second novel in Karen Traviss's Republic Commando series. According to Madiry's entry in the 2008 reference book The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia, Ordo entered her office in the logistics center and killed her. However, in the novel, he shot her in the head in a public courtyard outside the facility while she was having lunch. This article assumes Republic Commando: Triple Zero depiction to be the correct series of events. *Republic Commando: Triple Zero *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Clerical workers and assistants Category:Confederacy of Independent Systems individuals Category:Females Category:Grand Army of the Republic personnel Category:Individuals of unspecified species Category:Individuals with she/her pronouns Category:Spies