112579
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/The_Rakata_and_the_Unknown_World
The Rakata and the Unknown World
5117

The Rakata and the Unknown World was a book written by the Dark Lord of the Sith Darth Revan sometime during the Jedi Civil War. In the book, Revan focused on the ancient Rakata species and their homeworld, known then as the "Unknown World." During the New Sith Wars, nearly three millennia later, the book was one of the texts kept in the archives of the Sith Academy on the planet Korriban. There, the volume was extensively studied by the Sith student Bane. thumb|left|300px|The Sith student Bane (pictured) studied The Rakata and the Unknown World, having become fascinated with its author, Darth Revan. The Dark Lord of the Sith Darth Revan wrote a book titled The Rakata and the Unknown World during the Jedi Civil War, at some point between 3959 BBY and 3957 BBY. The volume focused on the Rakata, a species whose Infinite Empire had ruled the galaxy over twenty-six thousand years beforehand,Jedi vs. Sith: The Essential Guide to the Force and their homeworld, which at the time was known simply as the "Unknown World."Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic Revan's book was featured in the archives of the Sith Academy on the Sith necropolis planet Korriban. Two years into the war,Knights of the Old Republic Campaign Guide Revan himself was captured by the Jedi Order, retrained as a Jedi, and redeemed. During the New Sith Wars, nearly three thousand years after the Jedi Civil War's end, a Sith student named Bane found The Rakata and the Unknown World in the Sith Academy's archives and studied the book thoroughly. Bane was not as interested in the contents of the book as much as in its author, Darth Revan. The Sith student was curious about Revan's title of Darth, which had fallen into disuse with the emergence of the Sith Lord Skere Kaan's Brotherhood of Darkness. Bane eventually abandoned the Brotherhood's teachings and assumed the Darth title. Shortly after investigating Darth Revan's Sith Holocron that he found on the Unknown World&mdash;which by that time had been renamed Lehon&mdash;Bane used Revan's teachings to destroy Kaan's Brotherhood and instead create a new Sith Order, in the process limiting the Sith to only two members at a time: a Master and an apprentice. The Rakata and the Unknown World was created by author Drew Karpyshyn for the 2006 novel Darth Bane: Path of Destruction. *Darth Bane: Path of Destruction Category:Sith books and documents