112638
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Force_Adept
Force Adept
8157

thumb|right|250px|A [[Gender/Legends|female Cerean Force Adept.]] Force Adepts were Force-wielders of all species with varying powers and abilities. Some of these Force Adepts were known to wield Force weapons such as quarterstaffs imbued with the Force, which were able to withstand and inflicted more damage than a lightsaber strike. Often they were with little to no formal Jedi training in the Force and often coming from primitive planets. Force Adepts were individuals strong in the Force, but who were either untrained or followed a different Force tradition to the Jedi. Force Adepts came from many different cultures and belief systems and viewed their connection to the Force as more mysterious and supernatural. Some hailed from primitive cultures, trained as a shaman for their people. Others were from well-known Force traditions, such as the ecological priests who tended the Mother Jungle of Ithor, the Witches of Dathomir, the Jensaarai, or the Sorcerers of Tund. These traditions had different beliefs on the nature of the Force, and their own codes of conduct.Star Wars Roleplaying Game Core Rulebook Discovering a power inside themselves that they did not fully comprehend, Force Adepts first learned to master their own ability to affect the physical world. If they hailed from primitive or backwater planets, their training could be haphazard due to a lack of traditional education in how to master their abilities. Adepts could be seen by their people as holy or godlike due to their abilities. If they were a member of a more formalized Force tradition, they were trained as others before them had been. Some referred to the Force by the name it was commonly known as, but some called it by different terms. Force Adepts often became adventurers in the wider galaxy as a result of striving to learn more about the Force and their connection to it. Others were forced from their homeworlds, hunted by those who did not understand or feared their power. Adepts resigned themselves to being either revered or hated for their abilities, depending on what planet or region they found themselves in. Some hid their powers, either because they did not understand them, or were afraid of how others would treat them when they found out. Most Force Adepts followed the light side of the Force, or the equivalent version in their belief system. Few embraced the dark side. Force Adepts were known by many names, including wizards, shamans, witches, or prophets. Adepts had the ability in imbue inanimate objects with the Force. The most common items were unpowered melee weapons, such as knives, clubs, or quarterstaves, giving the adept an edge when using them in combat. They could also imbue object to create Force talismans which helped to defend them from Force-based attacks. Force adepts also often relied on more mundane skills to complement their Force abilities. Force Adept was one the eight starting classes established in the Core Rulebook for Wizards of the Coast's Star Wars Roleplaying Game. Valara Saar, a Human, served as the character example for the class. The second group of Force adepts is the concept used for a class in the Star Wars Roleplaying Game Revised Core Rulebook. In Saga Edition the Force adept would be turned into a prestige class with specific rules (such as item imbuing), while an official guide for converting between editions suggested the scout class for the "primitive" variety of Force adepts. *Star Wars: Empire at War: Forces of Corruption *Star Wars Galaxies: Trials of Obi-Wan *Tempest Feud }} *"Shadows in the Force" *Star Wars Roleplaying Game Core Rulebook *Living Force Campaign Guide *The Dark Side Sourcebook *Alien Anthology *Star Wars Roleplaying Game Revised Core Rulebook *Coruscant and the Core Worlds *Ultimate Alien Anthology *Hero's Guide *Ultimate Adversaries *Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic II: The Sith Lords: Prima Official Game Guide *Threats of the Galaxy *The Force Unleashed Campaign Guide *The Unknown Regions }} Category:Force-based organizations Category:Titles in organizations relating to the Force