113094
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/RHTC-560_Hunter_Trainer
RHTC-560 Hunter Trainer
5056

The RHTC-560 Hunter Trainer was a training/gladiatorial droid system developed by Rodian D-Tec to help track and eliminate prey during the Imperial Era. thumb|left|250px|An RHTC-560 technical diagram The RHTC-560 system consisted of one bipedal control unit and up to ten smaller HT drones. The master controller unit was bipedal in shape and form; resembling both its Rodian creators and an armored arachnid. Towering at a height of 1.8 meters and armed with sharp claws on both their hands and feet, these droids excelled in their role as gladiatorial/training droids. The RHTC-560 master unit's ferocity in combat was further reinforced by its speed and agility. Its advanced programming also gave it access to some of the latest stealth and evasion techniques available in its time. While typically unarmed, some were even modified to carry two forearm-mounted blasters. The 560 was also the tactical brain for the smaller HT drones which it used for tracking its hunters and defending itself, coordinating their tactics and cooperation, and recording their video input.Shadows of the Empire Planets Guide Since it was also required to interact with its masters, the controller unit was equipped with a vocabulator, a wideband communications transceiver, and a sensor array system. Meanwhile, a scomp link access port allowed the droid to pilot the drones through any obstacle as well as to display maps and replay recordings of its and their activities. These were essential for the debriefing and evaluation of the trainee hunters following a hunt. thumb|left|150px|A RHTC-560 Hunter Trainer control droid fighting [[Boba Fett/Legends|Boba Fett on the Anya Karu]] The RHTC-560 Hunter Trainer system was originally marketed locally by Rodian D-Tec on the Rodian homeworld of Rodia to suit the native Rodian appetite for violence and combat. Their customers ranged from bounty hunters, to the various Rodian clans which used them in both their clan wars and hunts, to even the dictatorial Grand Protector Navik the Red. It was alleged that the Grand Protector's RHTC-560 system had been modified with lethal disruptor cannons for used against his captives in competitions. Throughout the Imperial Period, their popularity was sufficient enough for the series to be marketed offworld beyond the confines of Rodia. With 5,000 credits for each control unit and another 2,000 credits for each HT drone, the series was economical enough for many non-Rodian bounty hunters, as well as local planetary militias and police academies. Three were also given to the captain of the Anya Karu, Aron Harcourt. They would later fight, and lose to, the bounty hunter Boba Fett. *Empire 28 thumb|right|250px|A RHTC-560 *Shadows of the Empire Planets Guide *The Essential Guide to Droids *Rebellion Era Campaign Guide Category:Gladiator droid models Category:Rodian D-Tec products Category:Training droid models