113260
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Wanderer_Scout_Surveyor
Wanderer Scout Surveyor
5418

The Wanderer Scout Surveyor was a model of survey droid manufactured by SoroSuub Corporation. They were often deployed with 87-RM Scout Collectors to capture and examine animals. The Wanderer had an arachnoid design, with a round body supported by eight multi-jointed legs providing the droid with mobility. The body was a meter in diameter, and the droid stood two meters tall. The droid was fast and agile.The Essential Guide to Droids A single photoreceptor eye was mounted on top of the body, and could rotate three-hundred and sixty degrees. Sensor apparatus was mounted on the underside of the body. They were also equipped with a Hypersonic Communications Console that allowed them to communicate with other Wanderer units. The Wanderer was armed with a stun blaster to subdue specimens. The stun blaster was mounted on the same housing as the photoreceptor, allowing the droid to essentially shoot whatever it could see. Below the primary sensor array were three fine manipulators equipped with grasping claws and surgical tools to dissect specimens in the field. The Wanderer did not come equipped with a personality matrix, leaving many owners frustrated over the lack of a personality. Due to the droid's extensive scouting and medical protocols being given priority, owners of Wanderers had to get rid of those subroutines if they wanted to reprogram their droid. If they did not, Wanderers would ignore the new personality matrix and continue to function as usual. Wanderers were capable of understand both Basic and Binary, but could only speak the latter. thumb|left|150px|A Wanderer Scout Surveyor droid The Wanderer Scout Survey Droid was designed for scouting missions and was often marketed alongside the 87-RM Scout Collector to capture and subdue specimens for live study. The Wanderers were usually deployed in packs, communicating with each other using hypersonic frequencies. In coordinated actions, one unit would flush a target from cover to allow a second unit to stun it. The Wanderer Scout Surveyor was manufactured by SoroSuub Corporation. The design was taken from blueprints created by an extinct alien race. In sales catalogues, it was often packaged alongside the 87-RM Scout Collector. During the Galactic Civil War, sixteen units roamed the jungles of Orellon II. The local Kentra thought they were demons, and when a group of Rebels landed on Orellon II, the Kentra King Jerius send them to stop the demon threat. *Cynabar's Fantastic Technology: Droids *The Essential Guide to Droids *The Unknown Regions *Enter the Unknown *Strongholds of Resistance Category:SoroSuub Corporation products Category:Survey droid models