114136
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Kashir
Kashir
8978

|socialgroup=Kashirim |language= |government=Monarchy |population= |demonym= |cities= |imports= |exports= |affiliation=New Republic }} Kashir was an Expansion Region planet situated in the Vardoss sector. It was home to the Kashirim cultural group, which acquired galactic infamy due to their socially-accepted practice of thievery. Shortly before the First Battle of Geonosis of 22 BBY, Kashir sought admission to the Galactic Republic, and, to that end, the planet's king, Sha-Mar Ma-dred, visited the Republic's capital world, Coruscant, where he had a ritual meeting with Jedi Knight Obi-Wan Kenobi and his Padawan, Anakin Skywalker. Between 12 ABY and 13 ABY, Kashir was a member of the New Republic. Kashir was a planet located in the Kashir system, a part of the Expansion Region's Vardoss sector. thumb|right|300px|King Sha-Mar Ma-dred of Kashir (top left) and his wives traveled to Coruscant to meet with the Jedi (bottom, from left to right) Obi-Wan Kenobi and Anakin Skywalker. During the Separatist Crisis, which began in 24 BBY,The New Essential Chronology Kashir became one of the few worlds to actively seek a membership in the Galactic Republic. At some point shortly before the First Battle of Geonosis of 22 BBY, the planet's Basic-speaking king, Sha-Mar Ma-dred, accompanied by his four wives and a pair of guards, traveled to the Republic's capital world, Coruscant, in order to meet with representatives of the Republic's Jedi Order and discuss Kashir's admittance to the Republic. The ritual meeting with the Human Jedi Knight Obi-Wan Kenobi&mdash;who characterized Kashir as being nearly ready to become a Republic member world&mdash;and his Human Padawan, Anakin Skywalker, took place at the Republic Diplomatic Quarters, with Kenobi warning Skywalker beforehand of the potential future significance of the event. During the meeting, both Ma-dred and Kenobi expressed their belief that Kashir's Republic membership would bring prosperity to that world. Between 12 ABY and 13 ABY, Kashir was situated within the borders of the New Republic. Kashir was home to the cultural group known as the Kashirim, who were also known as the Kashir and included Humans, and was governed by a monarchy led by a king. By the time of the Separatist Crisis, the Kashirim had become infamous throughout the galaxy for their thievery, which in their society was a valued practice. Jedi Knight Obi-Wan Kenobi once described the Kashirim as being primitive. thumb|right|250px|Kashir was introduced in the comic story "A Jedi's Weapon." Kashir was first mentioned in "A Jedi's Weapon," a comic story written by Henry Gilroy and published by Dark Horse Comics under the Infinities label in the Free Comic Book Day 2002 Special on May 4, 2002.The Free Comic Book Day 2002 Special was published on Free Comic Book Day in 2002, which was held on May 4 according to . The story was subsequently republished in the twelfth issue of Dark Horse Comics' Star Wars Tales comic book seriesStar Wars Tales 12 that was published on June 5 of the same year. Plausible stories included in the first through twentieth issue of Star Wars Tales were deemed S-canon in the Star Wars Legends continuity until referenced in a non-Tales source, at which point the subject matter was elevated to C-canon status. For the events of "A Jedi's Weapon" the latter took place when they were mentioned in Ryder Windham's 2005 reference book Star Wars: The Ultimate Visual Guide.Star Wars: The Ultimate Visual Guide The 2009 reference book The Essential Atlas placed the Kashir system, and therefore the planet itself, in grid square J-8. *Star Wars: The Ultimate Visual Guide *Star Wars: The Ultimate Visual Guide: Special Edition *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia *The Essential Guide to Warfare *Star Wars: The Ultimate Visual Guide: Updated and Expanded Category:New Republic planets Category:Planets in the Expansion Region Category:Vardoss sector locations