114232
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Dark_Trooper_Project
Dark Trooper Project
8974

thumb|300px|The three phases of Dark Troopers The Dark Trooper Project was a program run by General Rom Mohc of the Galactic Empire, funded by Emperor Palpatine, to develop what would have become next generation stormtroopers/battle droids, the dark troopers. The factory ship Arc Hammer served as the main production facility of the battle droids. The Dark Trooper Phase Zero project was implemented in the early years of the Empire to deal with a shortage of experienced troops. To return veterans of the Clone Wars to peak condition, their limbs and organs were removed and replaced with cybernetics using much of the same technology used to transform Darth Vader into a cyborg. In some cases, over 70% of a clone's body was replaced. With their years of combat experience and cybernetic enhancements, the units that did make it onto the field were undeniably effective. However, as the subjects were forcibly recruited into the project, many Phase Zero Dark Troopers could not cope with the state of being more machine than man and attempted suicide. The project was eventually shut down as the Empire grew in power and the recruitment rate of non-clones rose. The Dark Trooper Project was the brainchild of General Rom Mohc who drew from his experiences helping TaggeCo develop the Z-X3 experimental droid trooper, as well as the Dark Trooper Phase Zero Project he oversaw in the earlier years of the Empire. General Mohc, working with the Imperial Department of Military Research, requisitioned the Arc Hammer to both construct, house, and transport his new little army. However, not everyone in the Empire supported the project. Several officers and politicians had reservations about droids dating from the Clone Wars experiences. Notably Grand Vizier Sate Pestage never thought the project would work. thumb|right|150px|A dark trooper attacks a rebel base. The project was divided into three phases: phases I, II, and III. While the Phase I dark troopers were little more than skeletal prototypes they were put into some use early on by General Rom Mohc guarding installations. A peculiarity of the Phase I when compared to the later stages is that instead of a blaster rifle, or some other projectile weapon, it was equipped with a retractable vibrosword and a blast shield. Success for the project was ultimately achieved with Phase II. After initial production of the Phase II dark troopers, an attack was launched on Talay Tak Base. The attack proved the capabilities of Phase II dark troopers; the base was completely wiped out in minutes. These battle droids were larger, bulkier, and equipped with armor of similar design to that of stormtroopers. This armor was made of phrik, a dense and durable alloy that was difficult for even lightsabers to cut through. The Phase II carried a weapon capable of firing both plasma shells and explosive rockets. Not content with the modest success of the Phase II, Rom Mohc went on to develop the Phase III, intended as the final goal of the Dark Trooper project. To General Mohc, the Phase III Dark Trooper would represent the ultimate Imperial battlefield infantry, also serving as a highly advanced power armor exosuit for living soldiers. Only one prototype was ever constructed of this most devastating of the Dark Troopers. General Mohc himself donned this armor to defend the Arc Hammer from Kyle Katarn, who had boarded the massive factory ship on a mission to destroy it and end the project. Under orders from Mon Mothma, Kyle Katarn and Jan Ors continually sabotaged the production facilities. Kyle Katarn quickly infilitrated and sabotaged a number of key facilities including the phrik mines on Gromas 16 and the phrik refining facility and Phase II factory on Anteevy. Eventually the mercenary infiltrated the Arc Hammer, where Mohc and Katarn had their final showdown in single combat. Mohc was killed in battle, and the Arc Hammer was destroyed by sequencer charges placed in precisely chosen key locations within the ship. Furious at the time and credits wasted on the project, Palpatine ended all production of the Dark Troopers and even went so far as to withdraw funding for all Imperial battle droids being developed at that time. Despite the failure of the project and the loss of Mohc, Vader maintained several remaining Dark Trooper prototype suits, and used them as guards for his castle on Vjun. The Dark Trooper Project is the main background scenario and objective of the video game Star Wars: Dark Forces. In the game, Rom Mohc is the only figure seen behind the Project. According to early drafts versions of the scenario, eventually cut from the final game, another figure would be Ruu San, a Special Operations agent, entailed with protecting the secrecy of the project during its production. *Star Wars: Dark Forces *Star Wars: Dark Forces Remaster *The New Essential Chronology *The New Essential Guide to Droids *Star Wars: The Official Starships & Vehicles Collection 11 *Galaxy at War *Star Wars: The Official Starships & Vehicles Collection 32 *The Essential Guide to Warfare *Star Wars: Age of Rebellion Core Rulebook *Strongholds of Resistance }} Category:Galactic Empire projects and operations