114493
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Toalagar
Toalagar
3597

Toalagar was a pilot in the Rebel Alliance who was captured by the Galactic Empire and sent to the penal colony at Stars' End along with friend and fellow pilot Captain Samuel Raider. Toalagar, Raider, and other captured Rebel pilots managed to escape and stowed away on the BFF-1 bulk freighter Genue, bound for Kashyyyk. Subsequently, the Rebel rescue shuttle Drago and a pair of Red Squadron R-22 Spearhead starfighters,Although both the game Star Wars: X-Wing and the official strategy guide referred to the ship as an A-wing, the time period of the game's events would make it the R-22 Spearhead, the A-wing's predecessor. flown by Captain Keyan Farlander and Lieutenant Cardacs, successfully rescued them before they could be recaptured by Imperial forces. The escapees had been hearing rumors for months of a new Imperial weapon but had been unable to get close to anybody who knew more. However, they were able to learn that Wookiee slaves were being sent to work on the project. Toalagar's fellow escapee, Sam Raider, informed the Alliance about the Wookiees and was chosen to lead Red Squadron on a rescue mission. Raider chose Farlander and Sunnar Jan-lo as his wingmates but replaced Jan-lo with Toalagar after his friend asked to take part, complaining of a lack of action. The three Rebel pilots flew R-22 Spearheads against Assault Gunboats, defending the bulk freighter Toral while the Y-wings of Blue SquadronStar Wars: X-Wing disabled the freighter ahead of a boarding operation. Although the mission was a success, Toalagar's R-22 was destroyed by a concussion missile launched by one of the Assault Gunboats during the first pass and the pilot was killed, a death which Toalagar's friend Raider blamed on himself. *X-Wing: The Official Strategy Guide *X-Wing Collector's CD-ROM: The Official Strategy Guide Category:Individuals of unspecified gender Category:Individuals of unspecified species Category:Red Squadron personnel