114770
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Dragon%27s_Spine_(asteroid_field)
Dragon's Spine (asteroid field)
5564

Dragon's Spine was an asteroid belt near the planet Tatooine. Although it served as a center point of navigation for local explorers, stories of starships colliding with asteroids were not unheard of. During the Galactic Civil War, the Dragon's Spine hosted a conflict between the thug factions of Lady Valarian and Jabba the Hutt. The massive Dragon's Spine was one of the oldest asteroid fields in the vicinity of the Tatoo star system. Located right outside Tatooine, a major planet in the system,Star Wars: Empire at War: Prima Official Game Guide it snaked across the vast expanse of space around the planet and was generally safe enough to serve as a center point of navigation for many explorers. thumb|left|250px|The Dragon's Spine asteroids in the waning days of the Galactic Republic At some point before the Boonta Eve Classic of 32 BBY,The New Essential Chronology states that the events of Star Wars: Episode I The Phantom Menace took place in 32 BBY, and Ratts Tyerell died during the film. As Tyerell was shown to be alive in Jabba's Game Galaxy, it must have taken place before the events of The Phantom Menace. an unidentified spacer from another galaxy collided with an asteroid while flying through the field, which caused their starship to enter a spin and crash on Tatooine, in the vicinity of Mos Espa. Much to the consternation of the local crime lord Jabba the Hutt, his Whiphid competitor Lady Valarian maintained a military presence in the Dragon's Spine during the height of the Galactic Civil War. At the time, even the Galactic Empire had ordered their fleets to stay away from the Spine and the conflict that raged within the asteroid field. There are only a minority of sources that show an asteroid field right outside Tatooine, as none can been seen in the six Star Wars movies. The first of these sources was the 1993 video game Star Wars: Rebel Assault. The field also appeared in Star Wars Math: Jabba's Game Galaxy, a educational video game released in 1999, and in the now defunct Star Wars Galaxies, in which it was first identified as the Dragon's Spine. *Star Wars Math: Jabba's Game Galaxy *Star Wars: Rebel Assault *Star Wars Galaxies: Jump to Lightspeed *Star Wars Galaxies: Jump to Lightspeed: Prima Official Game Guide *Star Wars Galaxies: The Total Experience: Prima Official Game Guide *Star Wars Galaxies: The Complete Guide: Prima Official Game Guide Category:Asteroid fields in the Outer Rim Territories Category:Asteroid fields in the Slice Category:Tatoo system locations