114780
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Luke_and_Leia
Luke and Leia
6655

}} *Jedi Outcast *X-Wing Alliance |canon= |media= }} "Luke and Leia" is a musical theme composed by John Williams for the siblings Luke and Leia Skywalker. The piece was written for the film Star Wars: Episode VI Return of the Jedi, and is given a full statement during the Skywalker siblings' conversation in Bright Tree Village about their familial bonds. John Williams initially composed a "quite heated" love theme for Luke Skywalker and Princess Leia for Star Wars: Episode IV A New Hope to the extent of writing a development section that led up to a "torrid" climax. However, the theme never materialized for the 1977 film, and Williams later discovered that Luke and Leia were siblings only years later. Nevertheless, for the third installment of George Lucas' original Star Wars trilogy, Star Wars: Episode VI Return of the Jedi, John Williams wrote "Luke and Leia" for the family relationship between the two characters. A full statement of the theme was included in the film, which was released in 1983. For the Special Edition release of Return of the Jedi, Williams composed the concert piece "Victory Celebration," which was a rendition of "Luke and Leia." }} thumb|left|270px|Luke and Leia "Luke and Leia" first appeared in the film Return of the Jedi, where a full statement of the piece is played when Luke and Leia converse at Bright Tree Village about their shared family relationship and once more directly after the second Death Star is destroyed when Leia tells Han she is Luke's sister. A small part of the theme is used in Star Wars: Episode III Revenge of the Sith when Anakin talks with Padmé about his vision. The theme reappears in Star Wars: Episode VIII The Last Jedi, when Luke discusses how Han Solo and Leia left their son, Ben Solo, under his tutelage. The motif then transitions to "Han Solo and the Princess." A full statement of the Skywalker siblings' leitmotif returns when Luke and Leia reunite at the Crait outpost. "Luke and Leia" is also played in Star Wars: Episode IX The Rise of Skywalker, in the track "Reunion." The beginning of the track is a faster rendition of a phrase from "Luke and Leia," which transitions into the "Star Wars Main Title" and later "The Force Theme" as starships of the Citizens' Fleet gather on Ajan Kloss. After playing several other themes, the melody of "Luke and Leia" is played, at which point the screenplay depicts Landonis Balthazar Calrissian and Jannah conversing. The theme is also played in the Bond Unbroken music video on the Star Wars: A Musical Journey DVD. The piece is also played in LEGO Star Wars: The Video Game, LEGO Star Wars II: The Original Trilogy, and Star Wars: Jedi Knight II: Jedi Outcast. Additionally, an extract of the theme features prominently in the opening credits of Star Wars: X-Wing Alliance. In the Tales of the Jedi (audio drama) it is often used as a leitmotif for Nomi Sunrider. Category:Themes and leitmotifs