115506
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Althon
Althon
6077

Althon was a Human male who lived on the planet Dodz. In 15 BBY, as the Head Councilman of the Citizen's Council of Dodz, he tried to stand up to the governor, Kugg, who imposed heavy taxes. However, Kugg burst in at the meeting where the council's stance was decided and brought his killer droid, the Destroyer, with him, leaving Althon no choice but to give in. Even when the boy Jost Ellon presented a different option of fighting back with a Ranger X-One defense robot, Althon was too frightened and forbade it. Once Ellon successfully defeated the Destroyer anyway, Althon apologized and was able to take Kugg into custody. thumb|left|275px|Kugg confronts Althon. Althon was a Human male who served as the Head Councilman of the Citizen's Council of Dodz on the planet Dodz. By 15 BBY, Governor Kugg had taken over Dodz, threatening any merchants who refused to pay his taxes with his killer droid known as the Destroyer. At a meeting that year, acting as Head Councilman, Althon proclaimed the council's decision: they would stand up to Kugg and refuse to give him anything. However, Kugg had been listening and barged in, grabbing Althon and correcting him: they would give everything he asked. He strengthened his argument by having the Destroyer burst through the wall, knocking over the various members of the council who were present. Althon begged him to stop, giving in and promising whatever Kugg demanded. The governor then tripled the tax amount for their disobedience, telling Althon to be at his mansion by noon the next day and leaving him flabbergasted. Shortly after, the young boy Jost Ellon came by the Council Dwelling along with his droids&mdash;C-3PO, R2-D2, and a Ranger X-One defense robot&mdash;only to find it in ruins. Althon explained to Ellon how powerful and immune to resistance Kugg was; he even felt hopeless when the boy suggested fighting back, for they had no viable weapons. Ellon then revealed his defense droid, which Althon quickly recognized as an old Ranger X-One. However, instead of using it, Althon implored Ellon to get rid of it, lest Kugg find out and kill everyone. thumb|right|280px|Kugg was overthrown. Ellon ended up taking advice from an old man instead of Althon, for the next day, when Althon and the council delivered the payments to Kugg, Ellon shouted out the end of Kugg's rule and set his Ranger X-One on the Destroyer. This shocked Althon, who considered the boy to be foolish for such an action. The two droids fought, and after an assist from R2-D2, the Destroyer was destroyed. Althon and the other council members seized the opportunity and captured Kugg, with Althon promising to bring the governor to an intergalactic trial. Althon then apologized to Ellon for doubting him. Althon tried to stand up to Kugg's tyranny but crumbled as soon as he brought out the Destroyer. Indeed, he was so scared of that threat that even when Jost Ellon brought a Ranger X-One, he still believed the best option was to do nothing, fearing the X-One was as dangerous as the Destroyer. Once Ellon's plan worked, however, he saw the error in his ways and apologized to the boy. Althon had gray, balding hair, including a mustache, along with fair skin. Althon wore an orange jumpsuit with black stripes along with boots. Althon first appeared in the first issue of the Star Wars: Droids comic series, which was written by David Manak, illustrated by John Romita Sr., and published by Marvel Comics in 1986. *Droids (1986) 1 Category:Dodz residents Category:Humans Category:Individuals with he/him pronouns Category:Legislators and councilors Category:Males