115577
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Hantor_Loftus
Hantor Loftus
11768

|gender=Male |pronouns= |height= |mass= |hair=Brown |feathers= |eyes=Brown |skin=Fair |cyber= |families= |parents= |partners= |siblings= |children= |affiliation=*Alliance to Restore the Republic *New Republic **New Republic Intelligence Service |masters= |apprentices= }} Captain Hantor Loftus was a Human male who lived in Mos Entha on the planet Tatooine during the Galactic Civil War. He operated as a member of the Alliance to Restore the Republic, with significant interactions with smugglers sympathetic to the Alliance. In the period following the Battle of Yavin, Loftus was responsible for derailing Project Lasercutter, an Inquisitorius-led initiative aimed at capturing Rebel-aligned smugglers. Captain Loftus later joined the New Republic Intelligence Service, still based on Tatooine. By 12 ABY, Loftus led a recovery and incarceration team to recover survivors from a raid by New Republic agent Kyle Katarn on an Imperial Remnant recruiting base on the planet. Loftus reported directly to N.R.I. official Mon Mothma on the mission's outcome, requesting that Katarn stay out of future N.R.I. intelligence-gathering missions due to his aggressive techniques. Hantor Loftus was a Human male resident of the desert planet Tatooine, located in the Arkanis sector of the Outer Rim Territories.Star Wars: Complete Locations At some point after the Battle of Yavin, during the Galactic Civil War, Loftus was an agent for the Alliance to Restore the Republic, holding the rank of captain. In 1 ABY, he became aware of an Imperial initiative named Project Lasercutter, which aimed to capture smugglers sympathetic to the Rebel Alliance in order to undermine Rebel supply lines. Setting up a temporary base of operations in a hotel complex in the settlement of Mos Entha, Loftus ordered a number of missions designed to foil this project. thumb|left|250px|Loftus operated from within a [[Mos Entha hotel.]] Initially, he recruited a spacer to intercept and kill an Imperial agent targeting a smuggler on Tatooine. Shortly afterward, Loftus received word that the Imperials were targeting Jaxa Lian, one of his most reliable smugglers. Enlisting the spacer a second time, Loftus paid for Lian to be escorted back to his base of operations. With the safe return of Lian, Loftus focused on uncovering the source of the Empire's accurate information. Eventually, Loftus discovered a spy placed in the Alliance recruiting program, a native of Naboo known as Lidek Baws. Baws was to meet his Imperial overseers out in the desert, prompting Loftus to send the spacer after him. The spacer directly confronted Baws and killed him and the other Imperials. Until then, Loftus had believed the Imperial Security Bureau was responsible for Project Lasercutter; however, he then discovered that it was actually directed by members of the Inquisitorius, a top-secret division of Imperial Intelligence. Loftus knew that if they could kill the Project's lead Inquisitor, the loss would set Project Lasercutter back by months, if not permanently derailing it. Therefore, he sent the spacer on another mission to kill the lead Inquisitor after warning the spacer that the Inquisitors were deadly opponents and rumored to be able to use the Force. With these warnings in mind, the spacer was able to kill the Inquisitor. thumb|right|200px|Captain Loftus criticized Kyle Katarn (pictured) for his aggressive techniques. After the Rebel Alliance transitioned into the New Republic, Loftus became a member of the New Republic Intelligence Service, the successor to earlier Rebel spy networks and the Senate Planetary Intelligence Network. By 12 ABY,"N.R.I. Reports" serves as an introduction to Star Wars: Jedi Knight II: Jedi Outcast, which is set in 12 ABY according to The New Essential Chronology. Loftus held the rank of captain in this service. That year, New Republic agent Kyle Katarn raided an Imperial Remnant headquarters on Tatooine, which had been recruiting from amongst the populace. Katarn routed the Imperials and also killed the ringleader, who claimed to be "Reborn." Loftus liaised with the recovery and incarceration team sent to Tatooine as a follow up to Katarn's mission; however, they discovered only one Imperial survivor, who was left terrified from the encounter with Katarn. Loftus sent the prisoner on to Coruscant for further interrogation, along with a preliminary report on the mission directed to Mon Mothma, a former New Republic Chief of State now working for N.R.I. In the report, Loftus requested that Katarn not be sent on more "intelligence-gathering missions," criticizing what he saw as an overzealous approach. Captain Hantor Loftus was a member of the Alliance to Restore the Republic, a revolutionary organization aimed at overthrowing the Galactic Empire. In this capacity, Loftus organized a number of missions aimed at killing Imperial personnel. He continued in service under the New Republic with the same rank. On at least one occasion, he reported directly to Mon Mothma, a highly-placed official within New Republic Intelligence. In this situation, Loftus was prepared to "humbly request" that agent Kyle Katarn cease working on intelligence-gathering missions, knowing that the recommendation might overstep professional bounds. Loftus had light skin, brown hair, and brown eyes. By the time he was operating in Mos Entha, Hantor Loftus had acquired pirate weapons for his personal use.Star Wars Galaxies: An Empire Divided Quick Reference Guide He also donned a light brown outfit. Loftus was first named in the N.R.I. Reports, a series of weekly in-universe updates published on the LucasArts website in the build-up to the release of the 2002 video game Star Wars: Jedi Knight II: Jedi Outcast. These reports were later included in the README file of the computer game.Star Wars: Jedi Knight II: Jedi Outcast Loftus later made an appearance as a non-player character in the MMORPG Star Wars Galaxies: An Empire Divided, produced by Sony Online Entertainment. Known as Captain Loftus in the game and in associated Prima Games strategy guides,Star Wars Galaxies: The Total Experience: Prima Official Game Guide he was also given the first name Hantor in the game itself. In Star Wars Galaxies: An Empire Divided Quick Reference Guide, Loftus' statistics listed him as a level 10 NPC with 356 experience points. In Star Wars Galaxies, Loftus gave out four quests to player characters, staging from Mos Entha. He was removed from the game following the release of "Publish 25," a.k.a. the "New Game Enhancements," on November 15, 2005. *Star Wars Galaxies: An Empire Divided: Prima's Official Strategy Guide *Star Wars Galaxies: An Empire Divided Quick Reference Guide *Star Wars Galaxies: Jump to Lightspeed: Prima Official Game Guide *Star Wars Galaxies: The Total Experience: Prima Official Game Guide *Star Wars Galaxies: The Complete Guide: Prima Official Game Guide Category:Humans Category:Individuals with unspecified pronouns Category:Males Category:New Republic Intelligence personnel Category:Tatooinians