115868
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/EG-9
EG-9
8818

EG-9 was an ancient labor droid who was mainstay of Mos Espa spaceport on the desert planet Tatooine. It was working on a moisture vaporator shortly before the annual Boonta Eve Classic podrace of the year 32 BBY.The Essential Reader's Companion dates the events of Star Wars: Episode I The Phantom Menace to 32 BBY. As the comic story Podracing Tales takes place concurrently with the events of the film, it too must take place in 32 BBY. EG-9 was cobbled together from at least three different models of droids, including a salvaged Temirca droid head with a broken antenna, a Montoro serving drone body, repair worker arms, and wheels scavenged from a Verpine G9 droid. It was given an orange paint job with silver highlights for maximum visibility, and had gray photoreceptors. EG-9 had a broken antenna attached to the left side of its head. EG-9 was originally created for the 1999 film Star Wars: Episode I The Phantom Menace. However, its short,Star Wars: Episode I Insider's Guide humorous scene, while scripted and included in early cuts, was left out of the final version of the film. The Star Wars Legends reference book Star Wars: Episode I The Visual Dictionary, written by David West ReynoldsStar Wars: Episode I: The Visual Dictionary and released in May 1999, used an image of EG-9 to depict an unidentified droid, which later appeared, unnamed, in Podracing Tales, an online comic published on StarWars.com on December 19, 2000."Podracing Tales" This droid was only explicitly identified as EG-9 in Star Wars: The Phantom Menace: The Expanded Visual Dictionary, a revised edition of Star Wars: Episode I The Visual Dictionary written by Jason Fry and released on January 16, 2012, making the character canon within the Legends continuity. thumb|right|150px|Concept art of EG-9 EG-9's likeness was again recycled as the Trade Federation MED-47 medical droid featured in the 2001 video game Star Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds.Star Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds EG-9's deleted scene from The Phantom Menace was included in Star Wars: Episode I The Phantom Menace Illustrated Screenplay, released in May 1999, which also featured a storyboard of the scene from the Lucasfilm Archives. An animatic of the scene, dubbed "Trash Talking Droids," was later included in the 2011 Star Wars: The Complete Saga Blu-ray set,Star Wars: The Complete Saga The scene features EG-9 stationed aboard the Trade Federation flagship Saak'ak. When the Republic cruiser Radiant VII arrives carrying Jedi ambassadors Qui-Gon Jinn and Obi-Wan Kenobi shortly before the Invasion of Naboo, EG-9 and fellow worker droid PK-4 watch the docking bay from a nearby hallway. PK-4 assumes the Jedi are important when Viceroy Nute Gunray sends TC-14, whom the droids consider a "useless protocol gearhead," to greet them. When EG-9 notices the Jedi's ship belongs to the Galactic Republic, he asks if PK-4 thinks it could mean trouble, to which the other droid responds that he is not made to think. thumb|right|250px|PK-4 and EG-9, in a storyboard of a deleted scene from The Phantom Menace With regards to Star Wars Legends, Lucasfilm considered the deleted scenes of the prequel trilogy films to be canon, unless they conflicted with story details from the films themselves. EG-9's deleted scene shows the droid to be part of the Trade Federation, which The Phantom Menace establishes has no presence on Tatooine, while The Phantom Menace: The Expanded Visual Dictionary states that EG-9 is a "mainstay" of that desert planet. Given these conflicting elements, this article treats EG-9's deleted scene as non-canon. *"Podracing Tales" *Star Wars: Episode I: The Visual Dictionary *Star Wars: Episode I The Phantom Menace Illustrated Screenplay *Star Wars: Episode I Insider's Guide *Star Wars: The Complete Visual Dictionary *Star Wars: The Complete Saga *Star Wars: The Phantom Menace: The Expanded Visual Dictionary Category:General labor droids Category:Junk droids