116949
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Opeli_Mors
Opeli Mors
4710

Opeli Mors was a female Human member of the newly formed Jin'ri trade syndicate during the Yuuzhan Vong War. In 29 ABY, Mors served as the syndicate's representative in a discussion involving the formation of a network to aid Jedi movement across war-torn regions of the galaxy. The meeting, held at Shelter station, was attended by Bana Besadii Diori, Numa Rar, Lando Calrissian, Han, Leia and Jacen Solo at Shelter station. She offered her group's services in supplying troops and ships for a price. Opeli Mors was a female Human and a member of the Jin'ri trade syndicate, a newly formed group of war profiteers established after the fall of the planet Duro during the Yuuzhan Vong War&mdash;a conflict fought between the extragalactic Yuuzhan Vong and the New Republic&mdash;to meet the needs of the displaced refugees. In 29 ABY, Mors was sent by the syndicate as its representative in a meeting that involved the creation of a network to aid refugees across war-torn regions of the galaxy. The meeting was held at Shelter, a space station located in the Maw and owned by the businessman Lando Calrissian. Other attendees were Bana Besadii Diori of the Hutt underground, Jedi Numa Rar of the New Plympto resistance, and members of the Solo family: Han, Leia and Jacen Solo. Mors supported the creation of Jedi Master Luke Skywalker's Great River because of the profits the syndicate would make selling supplies along the pathway. Mors had a business-like personality and was calm during heated negotiations. When Leia was accusing her organization of taking advantage of war refugees by gouging them with high prices, Mors did not rise to the provocation and kept her replies calm and steady. Though driven by profit-minded pragmatism, Mors demonstrated flexibility when diplomacy required it, balancing her syndicate’s interests with a willingness to assist broader humanitarian efforts by offering a starship free of charge. Opeli Mors first appeared in 2001 in The New Jedi Order: Edge of Victory II: Rebirth, the second novel in Greg Keyes's Edge of Victory Duology, and the eight novel in the Star Wars: The New Jedi Order series. *The New Jedi Order: Edge of Victory II: Rebirth *The New Jedi Order Sourcebook *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Criminals Category:Females Category:Humans Category:Individuals with she/her pronouns