117481
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Silly_Squadron
Silly Squadron
3764

Silly Squadron never truly existed in the Rebel Alliance duty rosters; the name was first dreamed up by Garik "Face" Loran during the competition to give "Gray Squadron" (later Wraith Squadron) a name. He was apparently faint with hunger at the time, as another of his suggestions was "Dinner Squadron." Kell Tainer borrowed the name to describe a tactic used at the Battle of Folor to distract the Imperial-class Star Destroyer Implacable from reaching Folor Base and thus discovering the transport Borleias, which was unable to take off until it had made engine repairs. Kell and Runt boosted the power to their transponder systems and shields to make it seem on sensors as though their two X-wings were actually more. Blue Squadron's Blue Nine (Dorset Konnair) and Blue Ten (Tetengo Noor), while flying RZ-1 A-wing interceptors, stayed very close together and oscillated the power to their own shields, giving them a unique sensor signature that was difficult to get a sensor lock on and thus no definitive classification as to what their ship was supposed to be. The four pilots then used an old encryption code, which was known to have been recently cracked by former Imperial Admiral Apwar Trigit's forces to send simulated comm chatter back and forth. Since this was effectively the same as broadcasting in the clear and the pilots were doing their best at pretending to be more notable persons (Kell posed as Tycho Celchu while Konnair played Leia Organa), thus making Trigit believe that they were, in fact, Rogue Squadron and the Millennium Falcon. The two pilots sent transmissions back and forth that indicated that the "Falcon" was unable to reach escape velocity. The Admiral took the bait and moved to intercept the "Falcon", allowing the Borleias to repair and lift off. Once Trigit realized he had been fooled, he ordered a turbolaser bombardment of the area the four starfighters were hiding in, however impressive piloting on the part of Runt's "student mind" was able to see them all to safety. Silly Squadron was later used by Wedge Antilles as the inspiration for the Millennium Falsehood and the missions flown therein. *X-Wing: Wraith Squadron *X-Wing: Solo Command Category:Fictional organizations