118391
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Mentis_Qinx
Mentis Qinx
4566

Mentis Qinx was a mechanic on the planet Tatooine. There, he owned a docking bay where he extended credit to those who needed it, requiring large fees in return. His services had been taken advantage of by the bounty hunters Jango and Boba Fett, and he helped improve the starship used by both of them, the Slave I. The latter Fett had Qinx completely overhaul the Slave I. thumb|right|250px|Jango Fett (right) owed Mentis Qinx credits, which Boba Fett (left) would later find himself responsible for. Mentis Qinx was a male mechanicBoba Fett: Pursuit who owned a docking bay on the planet Tatooine in the city of Mos Espa, where he employed a 3D-4X administrative droid. He was willing to give credit to the needy but demanded huge fees in return, which his clients were often unable to pay. If that happened, Qinx was known to keep their starships. Qinx had had business with the renowned bounty hunter Jango Fett, who had fallen into some outstanding debt. In 22 BBY,The Essential Reader's Companion Fett's exact clone, Boba Fett, arrived in the docking bay and was greeted by the 3D-4X administrative droid, who informed him of his father's debt to Qinx. The young Fett tried to pay it off but did not have enough, prompting boy to tell the administrative droid that he would pay the rest after he had a meeting with Jabba the Hutt. While the droid attempted to remind Fett of Qinx's specific instructions, he insisted that he had to go, as it was unwise to leave Jabba waiting, to which the droid agreed. Fett, who in reality was not familiar with Qinx, later learned of his tendency to steal ships from an Etti named Estral. Fett was able to bluff the administrative droid into having Qinx overhaul his starsfighter, the Slave I; Qinx ugraded the power cells, added new covers to hide turbolasers and missile launchers, improved the engineering console, and replaced the hardware grid. By 19 BBY, Fett considered Qinx to be his mechanic and was waiting for Qinx to again upgrade the hardware grid in order to accommodate stealth technology. He also had a long-standing request for the Slave I to have its shields and exterior weapons systems upgraded. Mentis Qinx was first mentioned in the 2003 novel Hunted, written by Elizabeth Hand as part of the Boba Fett junior novel series. *Boba Fett: Hunted *Boba Fett: A New Threat *Boba Fett: Pursuit *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Individuals of unspecified species Category:Males Category:Mechanics Category:Tatooinians