118618
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Lhojugg
Lhojugg
3845

Lhojugg was a male Nimbanel who worked for Jabba Desilijic Tiure in the Hutt's town house in Mos Eisley. He was the cousin of Mosep Binneed.Kenobi Jabba was upset when Lhojugg interrupted his favorite song "Talcharaim Mist-Night," and became irritated by Lhojugg's investigation initiative which Jabba didn't ask for, so he ordered the Nimbanel to be fed to his Kayven whistlers. thumb|left|165px|Jabba the Hut. There is much fan speculation about Jabba's Nimbanel appearance in What Ever Happened to Jabba the Hut? [sic] and In Mortal Combat. A popular fan theory is that the Jabba in these issues was in fact Lhojugg masquerading as his master; considering the active physical role "Jabba" plays in issue 28, the story would, according to the theorists, make more sense with Mosep (or even more likely Lhojugg) rather than the relatively immobile Jabba. Some fans also suggest that Mosep/Lhojugg used the alias of "Jabba the Hut"&mdash;Hutt was originally spelled with a single T until 1980&mdash;and that other mentions of Jabba using the "Hut" spelling are actually references to Mosep/Lhojugg. Star Wars author Abel G. Peña has acknowledged the theory on the StarWars.com message boards, stating that it makes sense and will surely be made an official retcon in time. The old Star Wars Databank stated that the events in What Ever Happened to Jabba the Hut? [sic] may have happened in some shape or form, but not how they are presented in the comic. The novel Kenobi by John Jackson Miller establishes that Lhojugg and his cousin, Mosep, were joint caretakers of Jabba's office in Mos Eisley, representing his name, so that Jabba was "always in" at the office. Mosep would sometimes travel under Jabba's name, representing his interests, indicating that the Jabba from the Marvel comics may have been Mosep. In the A Hunter's Fate: Greedo's Tale webstrip adaptation, set a short time before A New Hope, a Nimbanel wearing similar attire to Mosep can be seen in Jabba's Court. It is possible that this character is Mosep, though may also be Lhojugg, his predecessor as Jabba's main accountant, as Lhojugg's creator, Pablo Hidalgo, illustrated the webstrip. *Kenobi Category:Desilijic servants Category:Males Category:Nimbanels Category:Tatooinians