120028
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Deppo
Deppo
9045

Deppo was a native of the planet Eriadu who served as an Imperial Calibration Engineer on board the World Devastator Silencer-7 during Galactic Emperor Palpatine's attempted reconquest of the galaxy. As a child he developed a passion for repairing and dabbling with mechanical constructs of all kinds. However, he was very defiant and soon fell in with a local gang, which would eventually lead to him being kicked out of his home by his parents. Left on his own, Deppo began making a life for himself until an incident caused him to begin working for the Tarkin family. Deppo continued his pursuits until he was sent off to engineering school and later served at an Imperial outpost on the planet Nyasko before being assigned to work on one of the first World Devastators. Deppo enjoyed his work, ignoring the harm it might cause to others in the future, and in 10 ABY was present at the Battle of Calamari. There, stolen control codes activated by the droid R2-D2 caused the World Devastators to become disabled and eventually crash into each other. Deppo escaped but was captured and detained by Mon Calamari authorities. thumb|right|250px|Deppo's homeworld, Eriadu Deppo was raised on the planet Eriadu, a factory world which served as Grand Moff Wilhuff Tarkin's seat of governorship over much of the Outer Rim Territories. As a youth, Deppo enjoyed tinkering with swoop engines and riding along the various spires and smokestacks of his planet. He eventually fell in with a gang of joysmashers, stealing speeders from the wealthy and driving recklessly around in them, before finally getting thrown out by his parents at the age of eleven. Left to fend for himself, Deppo made a living by stripping wrecks of all kinds and selling the parts to dealers or using them to repair vehicles which he would later resell. Things were going well for Deppo until he was caught stealing a hoverbike from the bodyguards of Rivoche Tarkin, Wilhuff Tarkin's niece. Deppo was merely stunned by the guards, who seemed to him as less vicious than typical Imperial guards, and, rather than face enslavement in JuveCourt, was given a job as a junior tech in Grand Moff Tarkin's motor pool. Here, Deppo finally found his true calling; he could tweak and tune all of the sophisticated military vehicles to his heart's content. Years of hard work finally paid off when the Tarkins sponsored Deppo for engineering school on his twentieth birthday. At the academy, Deppo trained for a position as a starship engineer. With the skills he gained there and the high marks he received, Deppo could name his price in the private sector, but he wished only to work on the best machines, which in his mind were only made by the Empire. He eventually earned a post with an AT-AT walker battalion based on the backwater planet Nyasko. Since Nyasko was located in the Colunda sector, which was known for having a strong Rebel presence, Deppo constantly found himself busy repairing sabotaged and battle-damaged wrecks from the frequent clashes. thumb|left|250px|Under Admiral Comeg, Deppo served on Silencer-7. Deppo was later transferred to Admiral Comeg's fleet in the Deep Core, where he was given the chance to work as a Calibration Engineer aboard a prototype Imperial superweapon&mdash;a World Devastator. Aboard the Devastator, named Silencer-7, Deppo oversaw the automated factories which mass-produced attack craft from raw materials the Devastator gleaned from the surface of a planet. He, along with the Assembly Commander, was responsible for maintaining the high rate of production put out from the factories during a battle. In 10 ABY,Star Wars: The Comics Companion dates the events of Dark Empire 6 to 10 ABY. a large group of World Devastators were sent to the planet Mon Calamari as a part of the reborn Emperor Palpatine's strategy for retaking the galaxy. Silencer-7 led the attack against the planet and its New Republic defenders until the astromech droid R2-D2 used stolen control codes given to him by the turncoat Jedi Knight Luke Skywalker to shut down the Devastators' shields and defensive ion cannons. As New Republic Sea Commandos and Calamari Defense Force troops boarded the stunted Silencer-7 and began penetrating its factory levels, Deppo panicked and fled in an escape pod just as the Devastator crashed into the planet's surface. Deppo survived but found himself floating toward the very Mon Calamari city the Devastators had just attempted to siege. Eventually a New Republic Amphibion found him and he was forced to surrender. He was turned over to Mon Calamari authorities where he was incarcerated as a prisoner of war. Deppo was an audacious youth and showed great mechanical proficiency at a young age, displaying little to no interest in anything outside of working on vehicles and vessels. He became very dedicated to his work as he grew older, so much so that he never recognized the amount of death and destruction his efforts would end up causing. Among the equipment he carried while working aboard World Devastators were a tech sealed suit, a breather unit, a monofusion welder, various tools and clips and a datapad linked to a Devastator's central computer. Deppo donned dark-colored clothing. Deppo first appeared in the sixth issue of the Star Wars: Dark Empire comic-book series. The comic was written by Tom Veitch, illustrated by Cam Kennedy, and released by Dark Horse Comics on October 20, 1992. *Dark Empire 6 *Dark Empire Sourcebook *A Guide to the Star Wars Universe, Second Edition, Revised and Expanded *Star Wars Encyclopedia *A Guide to the Star Wars Universe, Third Edition, Revised and Expanded *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Criminals Category:Eriaduans Category:Galactic Empire science and engineering personnel Category:Individuals of unspecified gender Category:Individuals with unspecified pronouns Category:Mechanics Category:Personnel of the Dark Empire Category:Swoop racers