120133
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Camp_Sagol
Camp Sagol
5123

Camp Sagol was an Imperial military camp situated on the planet Krant and constructed after the Battle of Yavin in 0 ABY. During the Battle of Krant between the Empire and the Alliance to Restore the Republic, the Imperial forces at Camp Sagol threatened the Krantian cities of Peche and Theenes. Camp Sagol was an Imperial military camp established on the planet Krant between 0.5 and 2 years after the Battle of Yavin. It was located southwest of the city of Peche. Camp Sagol was inside a set of walls, with part of the left side abutting a cliff, and the base consisted of a Command Center, three troop centers, a mech factory, and eight Prefab shelters along with a War Center and spaceport. A group of ASP-7 labor droids were at its disposal for resource-gathering, and four power cores provided power to the base's buildings. Two laser turrets at the entrance protected the camp, and a network of additional laser turrets was spread throughout the area. The base also had a garrison of stormtroopers. After the Rebel Alliance emissary Leia Organa crashed on the planet, a squad of Camp Sagol's stormtroopers attacked a small Krantian village, although they were cut down by Organa's escorts and the exiled Jedi Echuu Shen-Jon. Camp Sagol, along with another Imperial camp, Kaxol, commenced their attacks on the Krantian cities of Peche and Theenes, targeting the bridges which connected the cities to each other. The two military camps sent a group of stormtroopers and dewback troopers. Organa took control of the small village and raised an army to defeat Sagol and Kaxol, destroying their ability to make war. Camp Sagol first appeared in the 2001 video game Star Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds. One of the two camps must be destroyed by the player's army, forcing the other camp to withdraw. It has not been canonically established which was destroyed, as the player can complete the level by attacking and eliminating either one or the other. As the choice is a matter of game mechanics, this article is neutral to that choice. Only one of the camps has to be destroyed to finish the mission, although the game's strategy guide, released before the game itself, suggests the player target Kaxol, the closer camp to the Krantian cities.Star Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds: Prima's Official Strategy Guide *Star Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds *Star Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds: Clone Campaigns *Star Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds: Prima's Official Strategy Guide Category:Imperial military bases Category:Krant locations