120620
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Karak
Karak
6330

Karak was the male Sedrian bishop of war. He wore a blue armband with an engraved broken shell pattern. He was power hungry, wanting the Golden Sun to himself, and was the leader of a group of renegades. He had a daughter, Fala, and a pet razort, Tooch. He helped the Galactic Empire set the Golden Sun free and stole its power, turning it to the dark side of the Force through his actions, until a group of Alliance agents scattered the pieces of the Golden Sun and cut off his power. He was later arrested and imprisoned for his betrayal. Karak was a Sedrian from the planet Sedri. He lived in the city of Fitsay, and had a daughter, Fala. Karak was appointed as bishop of war, leader of the warrior monks charged with defending the cities and villages on Sedri. Wanting the power of the Golden Sun for himself, Karak began to preach about reform and freedom, and that the Golden Sun should be available and distributed to all Sedrians. At some point, Karak stole a small piece of the Golden Sun coral. Karak intend to use the power of the stolen coral to stage a coup and overthrow the priests, and recruited followers to his cause as he sought to breed revolution. When High Priest of the Golden Sun Cardo found out, he sent the warrior monks to drive Karak and his followers out of Fitsay. Karak led his followers to establish a settlement three hundred kilometers north of Fitsay. As leader of the renegades, Karak travelled with six dedicated followers who acted as his bodyguards, as well as his pet Razort, Tooch. He called upon all Sedrians to reject the teachings of the Priests of the Sun and join his cause. Karak's followers captured two off-worlders; the Human dignitary Mors Odrion and his retainer, the Mon Calamari Rekara. Karak used his piece of the Golden Sun to pull information from Odrion's mind, learning about the Alliance, the Galactic Empire, and Odrion's mission to the planet. While Karak kept a close watch of Odrion, Rekara was mostly unguarded; she managed to escape, stealing Karak's coral as she fled. Karak intended to deal with the Galactic Empire, and his capture of Odrion gave him the bargaining chip he needed to negotiate with them. Karak wanted to gain Imperial help to his plan, but was content to pay them tribute as long as he got the outcome he desired. He planned to offer them a half-share in the Fitsay sun caves. With the power of the Golden Sun, the Empire could hide planets and fleets in the same way that Sedri had remained isolated for centuries. During the Imperial assault on Fitsay, Karak and his chosen bodyguards infiltrated the sun caves, intending to the take on the power of the Golden Sun. While his bodyguards slowed down his pursuers&mdash;a team of Alliance to Restore the Republic agents joined by Pek and Karak's own daughter, Fala&mdash;Karak tok control of the Golden Sun and gained corrupted powers. The Alliance team battled Karak, with the Golden Sun choosing a champion among them. The champion, alongside Pek, Fala and Mon Calamari Rekara, defeated Karak and freed the Golden Sun. Karak lost his newfound powers, and was take captive. The new High Priests, Pek and Fala, intended to make sure Karak was imprisoned for his crimes. Karak was one of the largest and most powerful Sedrians on Sedri. He was a charismatic and power-hungry individual, desiring the power of the Golden Sun for himself. However, Karak was also a hypocrite, calling for the Golden Sun to be accessible to all and leading a movement to secure that outcome, all the while planning to be the only one to take the power of the Golden Sun. Karak loved both his daughter, Fala, and his pet razort, Tooch. However, it was difficult to know which he loved more. Once Karak broke into the sun caves, he gained several powers, stolen from the Golden Sun. He was able to sun beams directly from coral crystals, block and dissipate blaster bolts, and the ability to inflict pain on opponents. Karak also had the ability to control his pain and accelerate his own healing. Karak wore a blue armband with a broken shell pattern engraved into it. He carried several weapons, including a spear gun, a sun gun, and a spear. *Battle for the Golden Sun *Secrets of the Sisar Run *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Males Category:Sedrians