121616
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Crawlfish
Crawlfish
3373

Crawlfish were edible aquatic creatures native to Yavin 4's many spring-fed pools. Crawlfish were harmless, red-colored crustaceans that could grow up to a meter and a half in length and were covered in chitin. They have no real defenses against predators beyond their slipperiness. At the beginning of Yavin 4's wet season, male crawlfish leave their pools and start a long hunt through the underbrush in search of a mate. Female crawlfish, meanwhile, build nests of bubbles and twigs in their own pools under the shelter of overhanging branches. Females typically have the choice of among half a dozen potential mates, with rejected males forced to walk from pool to pool until they find a new mate or eventually starve. The female crawlfish will mark her chosen mate by bubbling against his forehead before mating. After spawning, the attentive parents will take turns fetching new twigs and rebuilding any torn bubbles in their nest until the eggs hatch. After one season, juvenile crawlfish will leave their birth pool and seek empty or less crowded pools to inhabit.Galaxy Guide 2: Yavin and Bespin Crawlfish inhabit the many deep, spring-fed pools scattered across the jungles of Yavin 4. Crawlfish feed on the myriad of insects and amphibians that live on Yavin 4. Crawlfish are considered relatively easy to catch and can provide a good meal. For those lost and in search of water, a crawlfish will eventually lead one to a spring-fed pool. Crawlfish appeared in the video game Star Wars Galaxies, a massively multiplayer online roleplaying game developed by Sony and published by LucasArts, prior to its closure on December 15, 2011. *The New Jedi Order: Edge of Victory I: Conquest *Galaxy Guide 2: Yavin and Bespin *Galaxy Guide 2: Yavin and Bespin, Second Edition *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Creatures of unspecified diet Category:Creatures of Yavin 4 Category:Crustaceans Category:Food creatures Category:Non-sentient species