123288
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Circumferential_hyperspace_barrier
Circumferential hyperspace barrier
7626

}} thumb|300px|right|The galaxy was surrounded by a circumferential hyperspace barrier. The circumferential hyperspace barrier, also known as the galactic barrier, was a chain of hyperspace anomalies on the edge of the galaxy, preventing hyperspace travel outside of it. The circumferential hyperspace barrier was a chain of hyperspace anomalies that completely surrounded the galaxy, and speculated to span above and below the galactic disk as well. Lightspeed travel through it was considered impossible; Doctor Insmot Bowen of the Obroan Institute for Archaeology &mdash; who nicknamed the barrier the bubble &mdash; compared the galaxy to a child's top spun with a string, and the barrier in turn being a collection of countless whorls and eddies spinning around it too fast to safely navigate. He believed that the barrier had been spun up via the Celestials tapping into energy from Galactic Center and using the western barrier &mdash; a second chain of hyperspace anomalies that almost perfectly bisected the galaxy &mdash; as the "string". The circumferential barrier was not completely impassable however, as a gap called Vector Prime existed in the Outer Rim Territories, close to outer edges of the Dalonbian sector, near the Helska system.The New Jedi Order: Vector Prime It was also possible to "smooth" the barrier using the Force and enable passage through it, as proven by Jedi Master Jorus C'baoth with the western barrier.The New Essential Chronology The circumferential barrier was long thought to have been created prior to 30,000 BBY by the Celestials, though for what exact reason was unknown. Speculation ranged between protecting themselves from invaders to preventing exiled beings from returning to the galaxy. Some theories, among others, claimed that the Celestials' disappearance possibly involved them escaping through the barrier during the Rakatan revolt, or becoming trapped by it, leading to their destruction. thumb|300px|left|The Outbound Flight Project's intended path In 27 BBY an expedition known as the Outbound Flight Project was launched, seeking to penetrate the galactic barrier using the Force and look for extra-galactic life. It was ultimately unsuccessful, however, as the Sith Lord Darth Sidious ordered its destruction, seeing it as a good opportunity to kill Jedi, as several were onboard in order to take part in piercing the barrier,Heir to the Empire and to prevent them from coming in contact with the extra-galactic Yuuzhan Vong.Outbound Flight In 1 BBY, the barrier was a topic of conversation during a briefing between Dr. Insmot Bowen, Imperial Admiral Conan Antonio Motti, General Arhul Kurumenga, and Master of Imperial Projects Bevel Lemelisk. In 25 ABY, the Yuuzhan Vong crossed through the barrier via Vector Prime, in order to begin their conquest of the galaxy. }} Author Daniel Wallace believes the hyperspace barrier is the result of gravitic "ripples" that emanate from galaxies, overlapping at the midpoint. *Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic *The New Jedi Order: Vector Prime *The New Jedi Order: Vector Prime abridged audiobook *The Essential Chronology *The New Essential Chronology *The Essential Atlas *The Essential Guide to Warfare Category:Hyperspace