124104
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Jhordvar
Jhordvar
5582

Jhordvar was a male Noghri assassin who worked briefly for the crime lord Jabba the Hutt during the Clone Wars. When Jhordvar tried to betray Jabba, the Hutt placed a bounty on the assassin, who was tracked to his hideout in Tatooine's Dune Sea by the young bounty hunter Boba Fett. Fett killed the Noghri after a fierce fight and then took Jhordvar's hands and his ring back to Jabba to justify his claim on the bounty. Jhordvar, a male Noghri, was an assassin who lived during the waning years of the Galactic Republic. During the galaxy-wide Clone Wars, Jhordvar briefly worked for Jabba the Hutt, a crime lord who operated on the desert world Tatooine. However, in 19 BBY, the Noghri tried to betray Jabba, and the Hutt hired the young Mandalorian bounty hunter Boba Fett to capture or kill Jhordvar, who had gone into hiding in Tatooine's vast Dune Sea. Fett soon found Jhordvar in his hideout and offered him the chance to accompany him back to Jabba's Palace peacefully. However, the alien refused to surrender to a "lackey" and was killed after a short but fierce battle. A sandstorm left Fett stranded at the hideout for a few days, and Jhordvar's body was exposed to sand and heat, which mummified the remains of the assassin and snapped off his hands. Fett took only the hands as identification back to Jabba and left the rest of the body in the desert. Upon Fett's return, Jabba's majordomo, Bib Fortuna, identified Jhordvar by a ring the assassin had left on one of his hands, and Fett received his bounty. Jhordvar was a formidable assassin, but he was nevertheless overpowered and killed by the young Boba Fett after a fierce fight. Although Jhordvar did not believe that Fett would be able to defeat him, the young Mandalorian proved otherwise and respected the fallen enemy for his brave fight. Jhordvar owned an expensive gold-green amaralite ring, which later served to identify Jhordvar's mummified hands and which Jabba later gave to Fett as a bonus. Jhordvar first appeared in Boba Fett: A New Threat, a young readers novel written by Elizabeth Hand and published in 2004. In 2008, he received an entry in The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia. Five years later, Jhordvar was mentioned in "So Uncivilized: Great Gunslingers in Star Wars, Part 1," a Star Wars Blog entry. The article was written by Edward M. Erdelac and mentioned Jhordvar in the passage about his killer, Boba Fett. *Boba Fett: A New Threat *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Assassins Category:Desilijic servants Category:Males Category:Noghri