124625
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Thorn_of_Ryloth
Thorn of Ryloth
4969

The Thorn of Ryloth was a specialized Twi'lek melee-weapon that was utilized by Rebel Alliance mercenary, Rianna Saren. It was stated that Ryloth had these edged blades in abundance, however beyond the planet, these weapons were rare and due to this, expensive off-world.Star Wars: Lethal Alliance The Thorn of Ryloth was a variant of spring-knife that had double-pronged curved blades, linked together via a central frame, that was attachable to a wrist mount.Star Wars: Lethal Alliance promotional material Being a electromechanical weapon, the two edged sickle-shaped blades were enveloped with cascades of energy, once engaged. As a consequence the blade attained a blue-purple coloration, with the energy itself appearing akin to lightning. Considered to be a miniature lightsaber blade, the Thorn of Ryloth was one of the several personal weapons owned by Rianna Saren. The extending blades themselves possessed the ability to become electrified once within close-quarters combat situations - with this ability engaged, the blades were enveloped with a blue-purple energy discharge. It was able to be attached onto a wrist mount, for greater utility, in addition to it being used by Saren, in tandem with her modified DL-44 heavy blaster pistol, to dispatch combatants with lethal accuracy and efficiency. Saren's usage consisted, primarily, of two main offensive attacks - one of these attacks required her to co-operate with her Z-58-0 security droid, Zeeo. The Thorn of Ryloth was a weapon developed for the video game Star Wars: Lethal Alliance, released for the PlayStation Portable and Nintendo DS platforms, respectively. It belonged to the protagonist, Rianna Saren, who appears prevalently, within the game. With the weapon, the player has the option of two methods of attack, during engagements. The 'Thorn of Ryloth Combo Attack' involves Rianna to approach the opponent - it has four animations: *Rianna passes the blade through the neck. *Rianna subsequently drives the blade through enemy's the abdomen. *Rianna trips the enemy down with her leg. *Rianna pierces the enemy's neck, slicing it. The 'Sliding Attack' - involves Rianna attaching to Zeeo and approaches the opponent: *Rianna detches from her droid and falls with her arm outstretched, and directing her blade downward, neutralising the enemy. There are slight discrepancies in how the Thorn of Ryloth's shape is depicted as, across the two versions of Star Wars: Lethal Alliance - within the PlayStation Portable version, it is a straight energy blade, reminiscent of a dagger. Within the Nintendo DS version, the energy blade is sickle-shaped, which seems to be more faithful to how the weapon is shaped within promotional images created for game. The color of the blades, when electrified, are also distinctly 'more blue' within this version, than the latter. In addition, it was situated at some distance from the wrist. *Star Wars: Lethal Alliance Category:Edged weaponry Category:Electrical weaponry Category:Personal weapons Category:Twi'lek culture