125975
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Dantooine_Jedi_Enclave_Council
Dantooine Jedi Enclave Council
5402

The Dantooine Jedi Enclave Council was the Council in charge of the Jedi Enclave on Dantooine. The governance of the training facility was conferred to this body sometime after the Great Sith War, when the first overseer and the founder of the Jedi academy, Jedi Master Vodo-Siosk Baas, died at the hands of his former apprentice Exar Kun. This Council was a subset of the Jedi High Council on Coruscant; Jedi Masters such as Vrook Lamar and Vandar Tokare held a seat on both councils during the Mandalorian Wars and the Jedi Civil War. It comprised four Jedi Masters and went through many membership changes in its history. Other than Jedi training, it was responsible for the administration of the Enclave and the supervision of other academy councils throughout the galaxy. One such example is the Tarisian Jedi Council which operated the Jedi Tower on Taris. Many of the Jedi trained under this Council would become historically influential figures, most notably Revan, who was a famed Jedi Knight and hero of the Galactic Republic, and later Dark Lord of the Sith, before his mind was destroyed and he was trained once again as a Jedi to battle his own Sith Empire. thumb|left|200px|Members of the Council speak with [[Bastila Shan in a meeting chamber of the Jedi Enclave.]] At the time of the Great Hunt, the Council consisted of Jedi Masters Vrook Lamar, Bala Nisi, Qual, and Aleco Stusea. When Jedi Shaela Nuur, Duron Qel-Droma, and Guun Han Saresh arrived at the Enclave, the Councilors had strong reservations regarding the Hunt; Lamar was wary of sending a Qel-Droma near any site known for it's dark energy, because of his cousin's fall to the dark side. Nisi argued that three Jedi was not enough to send on such a high-stakes mission; while Qual and Stusea thought they should trust in the High Council's decisions to send the trio. At the time of the Mandalorian Wars, the group had changed slightly; Qual and Stusea had been replaced with Zhar Lestin, a notable Jedi instructor from Coruscant, and the wise and venerable Master Vandar Tokare. The Council would attempt to work with the nearby Jedi Council on Taris; though after the Padawan Massacre, the Enclave Council recommended the Taris Council be withdrawn back to Coruscant. As the Jedi Civil War broke out, Master Nisi had been replaced by Jedi historian Dorak. This Council would oversee the reconditioning of the amnesic Darth Revan, and train him to overthrow the remaining Sith legions. This would be the final formal Council of Dantooine, for Darth Malak would destroy the Enclave via orbital bombardment. After the end of the Civil War, three surviving Jedi returned to Dantooine to pass judgment one final time on the Jedi Exile Meetra Surik. Master Lamar, Zez-Kai Ell, and Kavar would attempt to strip the exiled Jedi of the Force, only to have the act performed on them by Darth Traya. Being stripped of the Force, the last of the Council died, the august body dissolved permanently. *Knights of the Old Republic 4 *Knights of the Old Republic 6 *Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic *Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic II: The Sith Lords *Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic: Prima's Official Strategy Guide *Knights of the Old Republic Campaign Guide Category:Jedi Councils Category:Organizations of the Dantooine system