126213
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/MS-15_diamond_boron_missile
MS-15 diamond boron missile
5217

The MS-15 diamond boron missile was an anti-starfighter missile system manufactured by Sienar Fleet Systems at the height of the Galactic Civil War. It was primarily used by the Galactic Empire. Manufactured by Sienar fleet Systems, the MS-15 comprised a sleek, one-meter-long warhead that could be fired from any concussion missile launcher. The warhead featured extendable dorsal and ventral flanges for additional protection and atmospheric maneuverability, and its armored diamond boron blast plates extended in proximity to the target, making the missile almost impervious to starfighter laser cannons. The MS-15 could out-pace even the proton torpedo, and had a flight time of up to ten minutes. These missiles could be programmed to follow set coordinates, or otherwise primed to explode when the internal sensor suite registered a specific number of enemy vessels, with the common amount being three. Gunners could also guide the missiles remotely, though this method ran the risk of interception by enemy jamming devices. The fifty-meter blast radius could also pose a problem if friendly vessels were in range upon detonation. The Galactic Empire began to use diamond boron missiles around the time of the Battle of Hoth. The freighter Suprosa, carrying the readouts of the second Death Star, was armed with MS-15 missiles, and deployed one after Luke Skywalker launched a raid on the vessel. Dash Rendar was unable to destroy the missile before it detonated in the middle of Blue Squadron's fighter formation, obliterating four Y-wings and all eight Bothan pilots. It was only following Rendar's supposed death over Coruscant that the Alliance learned that the warhead had been a diamond boron missile, and that Dash's inability to destroy it was no fault of his own. Sienar Fleet Systems continued to produce diamond boron missiles although they never gained wide acceptance&mdash;in part due to their hefty price tag of nearly twenty thousand credits. a piece Incidents in which faulty warheads exploded while in storage also contributed to their lack of popularity. Nevertheless, diamond boron missiles were produced in limited numbers while Sienar tried to develop new, cost-effective designs. *Star Wars: X-Wing Alliance *Star Wars: Shadows of the Empire novel *The Secrets of Star Wars: Shadows of the Empire *The Essential Guide to Weapons and Technology *The Essential Guide to Planets and Moons *Star Wars Kids (1997) 13 *The New Essential Guide to Weapons and Technology Category:Air-to-air missiles Category:Sienar Fleet Systems products