127313
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Keejik_Ganz
Keejik Ganz
4399

Keejik Ganz was a male Weequay who was affiliated with Gardulla Besadii the Elder during the waning years of the Galactic Republic. The criminal stole several freighters from the Techno Union who placed a bounty on his head for the crime. In 32 BBY the bounty was claimed by the bounty hunter Jango Fett who encountered Ganz on the planet Tatooine. Keejik Ganz was a criminal who became involved in several acts of piracy involving the theft of freighters from the Techno Union, a Republic Commerce Guild. As a result of his crimes Ganz had a bounty placed on his head by the Union, who offered 3,000 credits for his capture alive and 1,500 credits for his death. Ganz became affiliated with the Hutt Crime lord Gardulla Besadii the Elder, who dwelt on the planet Tatooine where Ganz also began to work. In the year 32 BBY Ganz was on the desert world, working in the Dune Sea close to Gardulla's palace where large numbers of her thugs were involved in fights with the native Tusken Raider population. While Ganz was located near the Hutt's palace, the Mandalorian bounty hunter Jango Fett traveled to Tatooine in search of a Hutt affiliated with the secret cult known as the Bando Gora, whose leader Komari Vosa had a large bounty on her head. A rival of Gardulla's named Jabba Desilijic Tiure directed Fett to his foes palace as it was she who worked with the cult. Whilst Fett made his way to Gardulla's palace through the canyons of the Dune Sea he encountered Ganz. Upon learning of the bounty on the Weequay Fett subdued him and captured him alive claiming the 3,000 credits from the Union. Keejik Ganz was a male Weequay and like all members of his species had wrinkled brown skin and black hair, which he wore loose down to his shoulders. Whilst fighting in the Dune Sea Ganz used a blaster pistol and wore armor in combat. Keejik Ganz first appeared in December 2002 in the LucasArts dveloped video game, Star Wars: Bounty Hunter. *Star Wars: Bounty Hunter *Star Wars: Bounty Hunter: Prima's Official Strategy Guide *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Besadii servants Category:Males Category:Pirates Category:Weequays