127492
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Yeomet
Yeomet
2670

Yeomets were small, disease-carrying omnivores which infested numerous urban worlds, space stations, and spaceships. Yeomets were quadrupedal animals that could eat almost any organic material. They had a digestive enzyme that was activated by large amounts of electromagnetic energy that would allow them to consume a wide range of materials. Without it, their diet was restricted to a small range of plants and animals. The creatures had a strong bite due to a powerful jaw and could cause infections due to the wide range of infectious diseases they carried. Yeomets lived in artificial areas, like starships, space stations, and totally developed urban environments. They often infiltrated food preparation areas where they would feast on everything available, including containers and machinery. Yeomets gathered in non-hierarchal herds of up to 30 individuals. They would scavenge for food for 8 to 9 hours and then form a large pile to sleep for 4 hours. There was no structure to the pile, except for the fact that expecting females were positioned at the bottom of the pile where it was theorized the added weight assisted in labor. Yeomet pups were raised by the entire community which prevented competitiveness and infanticide. When confronted, the creatures would generally flee rather than engage in combat. Due to their invasive nature, yeomets were considered pests and exterminators were often employed to thin out the herd. They were also used in medical research due to their digestive and lymphatic systems being very similar to many reptilian sentient species. Attempts were made to domesticate them, but they met with limited success. The creatures were often touted as an organic replacement for garbage disposal in remote space stations and rumors were that scientists were developing yeomets that were more efficient at garbage disposal. *Creatures of the Galaxy Category:Creatures of unspecified biology Category:Omnivorous creatures Category:Species of undefined sentience