127459
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/2-1b-58
2-1b-58
6859

|class=Medical droid |cost= |length= |width= |height= |mass= |gender=Masculine programming |pronouns=new |sensor=Red |plating=Blue and gray |armament= |equipment= |affiliation=Tansarii Point Station }} 2-1b-58, best known as Billingsly, was a 2-1B surgical droid that worked on Tansarii Point Station during the Galactic Civil War. }} Following the Battle of Yavin, Billingsly was based aboard Tansarii Point Station, in the Bright Jewel system. During that time, he worked in the medical bay of Tansarii Point Station, along with Doctor Aja Sen and the nurse Alisia, treating injured and sick beings on the station. In 1 ABY, the health situation on Tansarii Point Station had become very problematic due to voracious beasts present in the station's atrium and Hutt thugs active in lower levels of the station. In addition, a war erupted between the Car'das controlling Tansarii Point Station and the Rak'qua living in the neighboring Station Gamma. This led to an abnormal number of hurt people that required care and the medical staff of the station barely handled the situation. Around the same time, a medic arrived on Tansarii Point Station with Han Solo and Chewbacca aboard the Millennium Falcon. Solo recommended the medic who was looking for work to visit the medical bay of the station. The medic first helped Aja to treat an injured mechanic who burned his hand while repairing a starfighter. The medic was then dispatched to handle a medical emergency on the lower level of the station. An accident took place in Storage Room 01 and a technician was poisoned as he inhaled too much smoke. Billingsly was able to prepare an antitoxin and the medic successfully treated the injured technician. The droid eventually granted the medic a Polis Massan bracelet and a medic uniform as a reward for the assistance provided to the medical staff of Tansarii Point Station. Later, after the medic had left Tansarii Point Station, Billingsly sometimes request some assistance from the medic upon medical emergencies. When a firelight erupted between criminals in Mos Eisley, on the planet Tatooine, Billingsly contacted the medic on the behalf of Administrator Nillika of the Mos Eisley Medical Center. The medic therefore helped treat injured commoners caught in the crossfire. Some times later, Billingsly received an emergency call from Larence Zaprin on Naboo. His family living in the Gallo Mountains had been attacked by voracious wild beasts and his son and daughter suffered from an infection. The medic was eventually able to identify the toxin responsible from the disease and generated a cure to treat the siblings. Billingsly was a non-player character in the 2003 video game Star Wars Galaxies, a massively multiplayer online roleplaying game developed by Sony Online Entertainment and published by LucasArts, prior to its closure on December 15, 2011. Billingsly was added to the game as part of the "New Player Tutorial," introduced with the release of the "Publish 25," a.k.a. the "New Game Enhancements," on November 15, 2005. If a new player chose the Medic profession, Han Solo would direct the player to talk to Billingsly after they arrived on Tansarii Point Station. Billingsly would first ask the player to talk to Aja Sen. After completing her task Billingsly would send the player to the lower levels to help a wounded man. After completing the tasks the droid would reward the player with 100 credits, a Polis Massan bracelet and a Standard Issue Uniform Package (containing medic pants, a medic shirt, medic shoes and a medic vest). Category:2-1B surgical droids Category:Droids with masculine programming Category:Tansarii Point Station residents