127485
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Tahiri_Veila%27s_grandfather
Tahiri Veila's grandfather
6217

. |masters= |apprentices= }} A Human male Jedi lived during the waning years of the Galactic Republic and into the reign of the Galactic Empire. A slender, green-eyed man with blond hair, the Jedi fathered a child who became parent to the New Jedi Order Knight Tahiri Veila. Veila eventually experienced a vision of her grandfather which suggested that he fell victim to the Great Jedi Purge around the time the Galactic Empire was formed. thumb|left|150px|Tahiri Veila, granddaughter of the Jedi A Human male Jedi lived during the final years of the Galactic Republic. At some point before or after the fall of the Republic in 19 BBY,The fall of the Republic is dated by The New Essential Chronology to 19 BBY. he fathered a child. His offspring in turn had a daughter named Tahiri Veila, born on the Outer Rim planet TatooineJunior Jedi Knights: Promises in 13 ABY.Tahiri Veila is said to be nine years old in Junior Jedi Knights: Promises, which, according to The Essential Reader's Companion is set in 22 ABY; therefore, her birth year can be placed in 13 ABY. Both of Veila's parents, Tryst and Cassa, were Force-sensitive, and they passed the trait to their daughter. If they were aware of their family's connection to the Jedi Order, they never had a chance to inform her about it, for both died when she was still very young. Unknowingly following in her grandfather's footsteps, Veila joined Luke Skywalker's New Jedi Order when her suitability for Jedi training was detected.Junior Jedi Knights: The Golden Globe She learned of her Jedi heritage in 22 ABYThe Essential Reader's Companion places the events of Junior Jedi Knights: Anakin's Quest in 22 ABY. when she had a Force vision of her grandfather in the Dark Side Cave on the planet Dagobah. In her vision, he was chased by stormtroopers across a landscape of green grass and shot at with blaster rifles, suggesting he was killed in Emperor Palpatine's Great Jedi Purge around the time the Galactic Empire was formed. The Human was a member of the Jedi Order, a group of individuals who were able to manipulate the Force and acted as the guardians of peace and justice in the Republic. He carried a lightsaber, the traditional Jedi weapon, clipped to his belt. He was of slender build with shoulder-length blond hair and green eyes, which his granddaughter Tahiri Veila perceived as "smiling" in the vision she had about him. The Jedi was created by author Rebecca Moesta for the 1997 young reader novel Junior Jedi Knights: Anakin's Quest, in which he made a brief appearance in a vision to Tahiri Veila. *Junior Jedi Knights: Anakin's Quest Category:Humans Category:Jedi Purge victims Category:Males Category:Post-Ruusan Jedi