127530
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Rolk-mangir
Rolk-mangir
5405

Rolk-mangir (translated from Yinchorri as "horned death"), were an apex predator native to the planet Yinchorr. Four meters tall with an extremely tough hide, rolk-mangir were also quite fast and cunning, and lived in social groups centered around a strength-based pecking order. Although it was at one point fashionable for Imperial Moffs and other officials to train the beasts as guard animals, a series of violent incidents led to rolk-mangir being banned from private ownership throughout much of the galaxy. The rolk-mangir were pack predators native to the deserts of Yinchorr, that were considered one of the planet's deadliest creatures. Rolk-mangir were four meters tall with a brown hide that was thick enough to withstand a blaster shot at close range, heavily muscled necks and a flat face adorned with six razor-sharp horns used to skewer prey and also to fight duels during mating season. However, this overpowering brawn belied a surprising speed and cunning, and rolk-mangir had a talent for hunting prey stealthily despite their size. The beasts were aided in this pursuit by extremely sharp low-light vision and a very keen sense of smell, and were able to detect prey by scent alone from up to 20 meters.Ultimate Adversaries Rolk-mangir lived in loosely structured packs ranging between four and 16 individuals, packs that were centered around a pecking order based on strength, and duels between rolk-mangir in the same pack were common. These duels rarely resulted in serious injury or death, but the losers were often forced to leave the pack for a period of time&mdash;these exiled rolk-mangir were known to be especially dangerous, as they tended to be more violent and enraged. Although rolk-mangir could be trained as guard animals, they tended to only be loyal to their trainers, and were known to attack bystanders and flee if their trainer ever lost control. The rolk-mangir were normally nocturnal hunters, but could be roused into attack by loud noises during the daytime. The creatures generally moved around on all fours, but were known to raise up onto two legs during combat, in order to give themselves more leverage when trying to impale foes on their horns. Renowned as apex predators on their homeworld, the reputation of the rolk-mangir&mdash;Yinchorri for "horned death"&mdash;spread far beyond Yinchorr, and the skulls of one of these creatures became coveted prizes among big-game hunters. Many specimens were exported to hunting preserves in the Core and in the Corporate Sector, and during the Imperial Period it became fashionable for Moffs and high-ranking Imperials to train infant rolk-mangir as guard animals. However, a series of violent incidents led to owning rolk-mangir being outlawed on most settled worlds, though there remained a black market trade of rolk-mangir cubs. In 4 ABY, Rebel leader Leia Organa was forced to flee a pack of ravenous rolk-mangir while on a diplomatic mission to Yinchorr, with the aid of an Alderaanian stormtrooper. The rolk-mangir first appeared in Star Wars 86, written by Randy Stradley, illustrated by Bob McLeod and released in 1984. Although the creatures only appeared briefly in the comic, significant background information on the rolk-mangir was later provided in the 2001 Star Wars Roleplaying Game supplement Alien Anthology. *Star Wars (1977) 86 *Alien Anthology *Ultimate Adversaries *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Creatures of Yinchorr Category:Desert creatures Category:Herd and pack creatures Category:Predatory creatures Category:Reptiles Category:Species of undefined sentience