127562
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Battle_in_the_Silken_Asteroids
Battle in the Silken Asteroids
5689

A battle occurred at the Silken Asteroids between the Galactic Empire led by Moff Derliff who moved against a Rebel Alliance base led by Jan Dodonna. Dodonna managed to destroy Derliff's forces. Around 2 BBY, the Rebel Alliance established a base in the Silken Asteroids. It was discovered by Imperial-class Star Destroyers belonging to Moff Derliff. left|thumb|X-wings fighting Imperial forces in the Silken Asteroids. The Rebel base's six Z-95 Headhunters fended off Derliff's initial attack wave, a squadron of TIE/LN starfighters and TIE/sa bombers. General Jan Dodonna rallied his forces and used the bases' R2-D5 labor droids to construct additional defenses before taking the battle to Derliff's base and driving out the Imperials. With the defeat of the Imperial base, the Rebels won the battle. The Battle of Silken Asteroids was first mentioned in the strategy guide to the 2001 video game Star Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds. It was the Princess Leia campaign's challenge mission. The player has complete freedom in building up the base and the army, although the strategy guide recommends building a large fighter squadron. The objective is to destroy the Imperial base. The mission and thus the battle was also included in the game's 2002 expansion pack, Clone Campaigns. The strategy guide erroneously refers to the Z-95 Headhunters in the beginning portion of the mission as "X-wings." In addition, the exact amount the player can build regarding the bases, and likewise the Imperial forces' amount, is dependent of the player's actions and game mechanics. However, the guide notes that the player at the beginning has five workers, and that the absolute maximum population is 75, and that the required amount of spacecraft needed to be developed to beat the level is 55. *Star Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds *Star Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds: Clone Campaigns *Star Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds: Prima's Official Strategy Guide Silken Silken