127865
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Companion2000
Companion2000
3791

The Companion2000 was a common datapad which weighed less than a kilogram and cost approximately one hundred credits. It was produced by MicroData Technologies, which offered a wide range of datapad models. Manufactured by MicroData Technologies, the Companion2000 was a standard datapad. The datapad was used for a variety of tasks, including writing and organizing information, data storage and retrieval, and viewing the contents of recording rod crystals. Weighing less than a kilogram, the unit retailed for one hundred credits. The Companion2000 had several features that were common to most models of datapad. It had audio pickups, ports for headphones, and power cells that lasted for up to three months before requiring a recharge. The unit featured a large, touch-sensitive color readout screen, and information could be entered into the device using either the integrated keypad or by using a stylus. The datapad had several dataports and interfaces that allowed the Companioon2000 to link with external systems, including other datapads, droids, computers, weapons, and vehicles. Users could also plug in readout glasses that had transparent lenses; the data would be displayed on the lenses, allowing the user to carry out other tasks while simultaneously reviewing data. The Companion2000 also had the ability to interface with recording rods and holoprojectors, and also had an in-built projector to display hologram images up to a size of twenty centimeters. The Companion2000 had an input slot that allowed the datapad to transfer data to and from a variety of external storage devices, including datacards, data disks, and microdots. The unit had an internal storage capacity of five million data screen units. Software included the ability to recognize dozens of computer formats, and a specialized program known as the Galactic Universal Translator which could develop programs that allowed the datapad to interface with unfamiliar computer systems. The Companion2000 could be customized with programs to allow for specialized tasks depending on the user's profession. *Star Wars: Tiny Death Star *The Essential Guide to Weapons and Technology *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Datapads Category:MicroData Technologies products