128540
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Dawferim
Dawferim
7434

|type= |leader= |subgroup= |origin= |region=Daupherm Planet States, Core WorldsThe Essential Atlas |species=Humans |language= |established= |reorganized= |dissolved= |restored= |distinctions= |affiliation=Daupherm Planet States }} The Dawferim, also known as the Dauferim, were a Human group that controlled more than thirty star systems in the Daupherm Planet States region of the Core Worlds. Since the early period of the Galactic Republic, the Dawferim engaged in at least forty wars against the Botori species of the nearby Botor Enclave, with some of the conflicts lasting for centuries. Around 30 BBY, a pirate perished in one of the wars, leaving their ten-year-old Dawferim son, Evram Darkmere, to raise both himself and his younger brother, Garreck. Over the following years, Darkmere went on to become a member of the Daupherm Merchant Space Fleet and the Daupherm Marine Corps, after which he began a career as a pirate. In approximately 10 ABY, the Daupherm Planet States declared their independence from both the Galactic Empire and the New Republic. The Dawferim,Dark Empire Sourcebook also referred to as the Dauferim, were a Human group controlling more than thirty star systems&mdash;including the Daupherm system&mdash;in the Daupherm Planet States, a region of the Core Worlds. They shared their name with the group of systems known as the Dawferim Selfhood States. The Daupherm Systems Fleet, the Daupherm Marine Corps, and the Daupherm Merchant Space Fleet were all active in the Daupherm Planet States, and there was also at least one orphanage there.Cracken's Rebel Operatives thumb|left|300px|The Dawferim inhabited the Daupherm Planet States and constantly conflicted with the Botor Enclave. During the early period of the Galactic Republic, the Daupherm Planet States accepted the status of an Allied Region of that government, and since that time, the Dawferim and their ancient rivals, the Botori species of the nearby Botor Enclave, engaged in at least forty wars, with some of them lasting for centuries. A large number of laws and traditions regulating nearly every aspect of the conflicts, including vendettas, privateering, and all-out war, emerged over the subsequent millennia. The Dawferim boy Evram Darkmere was born to a female pirate around 40 BBY.Cracken's Rebel Operatives, which is set shortly after the Battle of Yavin, establishes that Evram Darkmere was born forty years prior, which corresponds to around 40 BBY per The New Essential Chronology. When Darkmere was ten years old, his mother died during one of the long wars between the Daupherm Planet States and the Botor Enclave. Darkmere was left having to raise both himself and his younger brother, Garreck. Two years later, Darkmere joined the Daupherm Merchant Space Fleet as a cabin boy&mdash;while his brother was placed in an orphanage. The older Dawferim was later drafted into the Daupherm Marine Corps, where he spent five years on a tour. thumb|right|300px|The Discril-class attack cruiser stolen by Gorvan Shrulldike from the Daupherm Marine Corps After the tour's end, Darkmere joined Gorvan Shrulldike, his former captain, who stole their Discril-class attack cruiser in order to become a pirate. Several years later, Darkmere himself became the captain of the attack cruiser&mdash;with his pirate crew including old friends from the time he spent in the Daupherm Merchant Space Fleet&mdash;as well as a Rebel Alliance informant. At some point by the time shortly following the Battle of Yavin, Alliance General Airen Cracken included an entry on Darkmere to a datafile detailing various Rebel operatives. By 10 ABY,The Dark Empire Sourcebook is set six years after the Battle of Endor, which corresponds to 10 ABY per The New Essential Chronology. the Dawferim and the Botor Enclave had engaged in a five-hundred-year-long small-scale feud. Around that same time, the Daupherm Planet States also declared their independence from both the Galactic Empire and the New Republic. The Dawferim were first mentioned in the Dark Empire Sourcebook, Michael Allen Horne's 1993 sourcebook published by West End Games for use with Star Wars: The Roleplaying Game. Mike Jackson illustrated the Dawferim Evram Darkmere for the 1994 sourcebook Cracken's Rebel Operatives, while the 2009 reference book The Essential Atlas by Daniel Wallace and Jason Fry introduced the alternate name "Dauferim" for the group. *Dark Empire Sourcebook *Cracken's Rebel Operatives *The Essential Atlas Category:Human cultural groups