129057
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Trench_(Folor)
Trench (Folor)
3413

thumb|right|250px|[[Wraith Squadron|Wraith and Blue Squadrons race from Folor Base through the Pig Trough.]] The Trench,X-Wing: Rogue Squadron unofficially referred to as The Pig Trough, was an anomalous geographic feature on Folor, the moon of Commenor. The meandering fissure's near terminus was a klick from the New Republic Folor Base and then ran several thousand kilometers northeast, then northwest, and continued an even longer distance. The feature was created in a distant time before the New Republic era when the moon wasn't yet fully cooled and still had active tectonics.X-Wing: Wraith Squadron Alliance command had originally the fissure the "Trench" as a memorial to the casualties during the trench run of the Battle of Yavin against the Death Star, but it was later instead nicknamed the "pig trough" due to the reputation of Y-wings as "wallowing pigs". New Republic pilots, particularly the A-wing, X-wing, and Y-wing trainees at Folor Base, used the Pig Trough for practice runs. The deep crevice in the moon's surface with narrow, winding sections gave them a challenge in their fast-moving fighter craft. It was designated a gunnery and bombing range, and when other fighter fighters were practicing in the satellite field orbiting Folor, Y-Wing squadrons dropped charges over the canyon. When Admiral Apwar Trigit attacked Folor Base in 8 ABY, Republic Flight officers Kell Tainer and Hohass Ekwesh of Wraith Squadron and Dorset Konnair and Tetengo Noor of Blue Squadron flew up the Pig Trough (unofficially racing their differing fighter craft along the way) to scout out the Implacable. They also managed to draw the Imperial Star Destroyer to their position as a diversion, using their familiarity with piloting the Pig Trough to have a margin of cover as they flew back to their squadrons, running the gauntlet of Trigit's turbolasers. Wraith and Blue Squadrons were also able to hide in the Pig Trough as they traveled from Folor Base itself to their engagement zone with the Implacable TIE Interceptors. *X-Wing: Rogue Squadron *X-Wing: Rogue Squadron abridged audiobook *X-Wing: Wraith Squadron *X-Wing: Wraith Squadron abridged audiobook Category:Canyons Category:Folor locations