129248
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Assault_battalion
Assault battalion
4688

An assault battalion was a formation of the Imperial Army. Commanded by a Major, an assault battalion was comprised of a single line company, 2 assault companies, and a repulsorlift company, with the attendant battalion headquarters and support personnel. One assault company was always fully equipped, with the average battalion numbering around 868 personnel, 628 of which were combat personnel supported by thirty-one repulsorcraft. Assault battalions were often employed in urban environments, and were commonly employed as vanguard units for large-scale operations. Assault battalions were given priority over line battalions when it came to fire-support requests, and the battalion was occasionally reorganized so that the fully equipped assault company were carried by elements of the repulsorlift company. Assault battalions could be augmented by the addition of a line company, an additional assault company, an extra repulsorlift company, and an artillery battery. The CompForce Assault arm also maintained several assault battalions organized into COMPNOR regiments. The main differences between the standard assault battalion and its COMPNOR counterpart was the latter's lower quality of troops and the lack of a security platoon. The lack of internal security can be attributed to a genuine belief within C.O.M.P.N.O.R. that their troops were unquestionably loyal. Compforce troops were generally noted to be more ideologically driven to serve their Emperor compared the standard Imperial Army trooper and Imperial Stormtrooper. This may not apply to individual commanders as some like Ivo Laibach had a personal bodyguard named Zevulon Veers. Whether this was common practice is unknown. But the threat of external enemies remained unchanged. One CompForce assault battalion also served onboard the personal flagship of the reborn Emperor Palpatine, the Eclipse.Dark Empire Sourcebook 500pxAssault battalion organizational chart on the Imperial Army Order of Battle *Imperial Sourcebook *Dark Empire Sourcebook *Star Wars Miniatures Battles Companion *Imperial Sourcebook, Second Edition *Rules of Engagement: The Rebel SpecForce Handbook *Star Wars: Imperial Handbook: A Commander's Guide Category:Imperial Army organizational battalions