129945
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Palpatine%27s_apartment
Palpatine's apartment
7664

}} Palpatine's apartment was a suite of rooms maintained by Sheev Palpatine during his time as the senator of Naboo. It was was located in the upper levels of 500 Republica in the Senate District of Galactic City on the planet Coruscant. The queen of Naboo Padmé Amidala stayed in the apartment as Palpatine's guest during the Invasion of Naboo. thumb|left|250px|The apartment offered a panoramic view of Galactic City on Coruscant. Within the upper levels of 500 Republica&mdash;the most prestigious and exclusive residential tower located in the Senate District of the planet Coruscant&mdash;Senator Sheev Palpatine of Naboo kept an apartment that included a view of Galactic City. The apartment had majestic views but was modest in comparison to other members of the Galactic Senate. Palpatine had the apartment decorated in hues of red with various unusual art objects and it was wired with discreet security and surveillance equipment. thumb|right|250px|Sheev Palpatine resided in an apartment suite in 500 Republica during his tenure as the senator of Naboo. After Queen of Naboo Padmé Amidala and her retinue&mdash;which had been joined by the Jedi Qui-Gon Jinn and Obi-Wan Kenobi&mdash;had arriving on Coruscant following a brief stopover on the planet Tatooine in the Outer Rim Territories for repairs, Senator Palpatine brought the Queen and her retinue to his apartment suite located within 500 Republica, while the Jedi made their way to the High Council Tower to report to the Jedi High Council. Nonetheless, the young Force-sensitive Anakin Skywalker, whom Jinn had rescued from slavery on Tatooine on the belief that he was the Jedi Order's prophesied Chosen One, and the Gungan Jar Jar Binks, who had joined the Jedi's journey after saving Jinn's life, also were brought along to the apartment. A short time after arriving at the apartment, Skywalker and Binks were waiting outside the apartment's sitting room, with the Gungan sitting in a small chair. Captain Quarsh Panaka walked passed them as he entered the sitting room, where Amidala sat on a small couch as two of her handmaidens stood behind her on either side. Panaka stood off to the side as Palpatine paced before the young queen, relating about the corruption within the Galactic Senate and how there was little chance of the Senate taking action in response to the Trade Federation's invasion of Naboo. Amidala stated that Supreme Chancellor Finis Valorum believed there was chance to which Palpatine informed her that the Chancellor held little real power in the Senate. Amidala then asked what their options were. thumb|left|250px|Queen Padmé Amidala briefly resided in Palpatine's apartment as the senator's guest during the Invasion of Naboo. Moving towards the young queen, Palpatine stated that the election of a new Supreme Chancellor was their best option, suggesting she call for a Vote of No Confidence in Valorum. Stunned by the senator's words, Amidala countered with how Valorum had been supporting them. Palpatine stepped back and started to pace again as he explained their only other option was to go to the courts and submit their plea. Remaining in her seat, Queen Amidala voiced her frustration, reiterating their people were dying and that they needed a fast solution. Palpatine stood still as he gave his queen an apologetic look before pacing again, informing her that for the moment they would have to accept Federation control of their planet. The senator stopped and looked back to Queen Amidala as she informed him she could not do what he was suggesting. Meanwhile, outside the sitting room, Skywalker pulled Binks out of his chair and led him off. The Invasion of Naboo, which had in secret been masterminded by Palpatine in his alter ego of the Dark Lord of the Sith Darth Sidious, culminated in him being elected Supreme Chancellor of the Republic, replacing Valorum and making a major advancement in his Grand Plan to take total control of the galaxy. Palpatine continued to make use of his apartment during his time as the chancellor and into the Clone Wars, a galaxy-wide conflict between the Republic and breakaway Confederacy of Independent Systems that had, in secret, also been masterminded by Palpatine. In 20 BBY, as fears around a plot to assassinate Chancellor Palpatine began to take root, Clone Captain Rex&mdash;an elite and high-ranking clone trooperUltimate Star Wars, New Edition who served under the now-Jedi Knight Skywalker, who had developed a close bond with Palpatine&mdash;was ordered to personally escort the Chancellor back to his apartment. While Palpatine displayed annoyance at the added security, he allowed the captain to join him on his journey home from the Chancellor's office after speaking to Jedi Master Mace Windu about Skywalker's whereabouts. *Queen's Peril *Star Wars: The Phantom Menace Graphic Novel Adaptation *Queen's Shadow *Tarkin *Darth Vader (2020) 27 *Ultimate Star Wars *Ultimate Star Wars, New Edition *Star Wars Encyclopedia: The Comprehensive Guide to the Star Wars Galaxy Category:Coruscant apartments