130611
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Edi_Wedd
Edi Wedd
11049

|homeworld= |birth= |death=22 BBY, Amaltanna |species= |gender= |pronouns= |height= |mass= |hair= |feathers= |eyes=Blue-gray |skin=Green |cyber= |families= |parents= |partners=new |siblings= |children= |affiliation=Confederacy of Independent Systems |masters= |apprentices= }} Baron Edi Wedd was a decorated insectoid commander of the Confederacy of Independent Systems. A proud and arrogant Separatist sympathizer, Wedd was unsuccessfully indicted by their people for directing resources to the Confederate government. Joining the Separatist cause, the Baron constructed a massive, impenetrable fortress called the Impregnable on planet Amaltanna, where they mercilessly eradicated a sieging force composed of their own people. When Galactic Republic forces met those of Wedd at the Battle of Amaltanna, the Baron remained inside the fortress, safeguarded from invasion. A furious battle ensued, resulting in a total loss of all combatants save for Jedi General Bultar Swan, Wedd, and the droids kept inside the colossal stronghold. Swan thereafter entered the Impregnable and advanced toward the multi-limbed Separatist commander as they taunted her over loudspeakers. Wedd activated the defense systems remotely, but the relentless Jedi dispatched the droids and evaded the traps, deliberately impairing the communications relay in the process. When she found Wedd's innermost sanctum, the insectoid remained inside, proudly extolling its impenetrability; Swan simply destroyed the door's control panel and life-support systems, encasing Baron Wedd within the Impregnable fortress forever. thumb|270px|right|Baron Wedd erected the Impregnable on Amaltanna. Edi Wedd was a sentient insectoid who hailed from a world otherwise unaffiliated with the Confederacy of Independent Systems, a Separatist government at war with the millennia-old Galactic Republic. Some time prior to the Battle of Amaltanna in 22 BBY, Wedd began to sympathize with the Separatists and directed resources thereto; their people unsuccessfully attempted to have them tried for these acts. At some point, the insectoid acquired the title of Baron and became the decorated commander of a Separatist force. As a Separatist leader, Wedd established a virtually impenetrable fortress on planet Amaltanna, which was aptly christened the Impregnable. The stronghold was constructed of kilometers of durasteel surrounded by force fields which were capable of repelling even orbital bombardment. The Baron took up residence inside the Impregnable and eradicated an army of their own people in a lengthy battle as they besieged the fortress. thumb|left|250px|Swan poses on a LAAT gunship in the aftermath of the battle. In 22 BBY,The New Essential Chronology six months after the Battle of Geonosis sparked the Clone Wars, Wedd's fortress became the site of a destructive engagement between the Grand Army of the Republic and the droid army of the Separatists. The two forces clashed with ferocity; as the battle ended, the scene was quite desolate. All units had been lost save for the Republic leader&mdash;Jedi General Bultar Swan&mdash;as well as Wedd, who remained safely inside their fortress with a collection of battle droids. As Swan approached the imposing structure, Wedd monitored her movements through a camera system and offered to accept her surrender over the loudspeakers. Swan, undeterred, ignored the offer and proceeded into the stronghold, where Wedd continued to scoff at her intrusion. From their inner sanctum, they activated wall-mounted blaster weaponry and feigned affection towards the Jedi for her single-minded pursuit of them. She responded by deflecting the attack and resuming her advance. The Baron then expressed their objection to life imprisonment on Coruscant and recounted their willingness to annihilate their own people out of self-interest. As the intruder proceeded to a ledge which bridged a deep chasm within the facility, Wedd deployed a swarm of spider droids to overwhelm the Jedi while she was perched precariously thereover. Swan, however, was not so easily outclassed; she finished the droids and leapt to the opposite deck, avoiding the retracting walkway. thumb|right|270px|The Baron anxiously calls after Swan as she departs their chamber. Wedd continued to sneer at her success, invoking the Impregnable's labyrinthine design and asking Swan if she had lost her way when she entered its communications array. Still in remote control of the facility, Wedd ambushed the Jedi there with a company of super battle droids, but she made short work of these units and irreparably damaged the communications equipment on her way out. Finally, she approached the innermost chamber in which Wedd lived. The Separatist declared victory, noting that the solitary entrance was magnetically sealed and too thick to be sliced by lightsaber. The Jedi silently slashed through the door's control mechanism and the facility's life-support systems, destroying them, and departed nonchalantly. An exasperated Wedd announced that Swan had thereby isolated herself from any hope of capturing them. Wedd then came to realize her true intention&mdash;she had entombed the Baron within their proud, inaccessible fortress. thumb|250px|left|Wedd's fate was sealed through their own miscalculations. Baron Wedd was a green insectoid being who possessed at least six ciliate eyes and a toothed mouth. They also maintained six pointed limbs, which extended in groups of three from each of their two shoulders. In military attire, the Baron wore a black suit displaying military regalia over white-and-red undergarments. They also sported yellow epaulets as well as a tall, cylindrical hat adorned with insignia. Baron Wedd was a proud alien who displayed no qualms in dissenting from popular opinion against the Separatist cause. Indeed, the Separatist commander retained no allegiance to former compatriots, displaying even genocidal tendencies when they massacred a force comprised of their former people. Wedd was quite proud of the Impregnable fortress, boasting of its enormity and considerable defenses and smugly dismissing the possibility of invasion by their enemies. As a military mind, Wedd experienced success at least twice when utterly annihilating both forces that attempted to assail it. Wedd was also prone to some amount of verbosity and gave a lengthy, sarcastic speech to Swan as she advanced toward Wedd's central chamber. However, their lack of forethought as to the Impregnable's design&mdash;as well as misjudgments concerning Swan's exploitation thereof&mdash;resulted in Wedd's demise within the mighty structure. Baron Edi Wedd first appeared as an unidentified insectoid Separatist commander in Impregnable, a short comic collected in Star Wars: Clone Wars Adventures Volume 7, written by Chris Avellone and illustrated by Ethan Beavers and Dan Jackson. Impregnable was published by Dark Horse Comics on January 31, 2007. Wedd was then given a name in The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia. *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Individuals of unidentified species Category:Individuals of unspecified gender Category:Individuals with unspecified pronouns Category:Separatist officers