130821
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Tomb_of_Ludo_Kressh
Tomb of Ludo Kressh
6026

The tomb of Dark Lord of the Sith Ludo Kressh was constructed by the Sith slaves of the Sith Empire within the Valley of the Dark Lords on Korriban. Located within a cave in the upper Valley of the Dark Lords, the tomb of Sith Lord Ludo Kressh was prepared for the death of the Sith Lord. Some time after Kressh's death at the hands of Naga Sadow's forces during the Great Hyperspace WarTales of the Jedi – The Fall of the Sith Empire 5 in 5000 BBY,The Essential Atlas the Sith Lord's body was recovered and interred within the heart of the tomb. Soon afterwards, the Republic utterly ruined the Sith EmpireStar Wars: The Old Republic as Naga Sadow fled to Yavin 4 and a portion of the Empire fled to Dromund Kaas. Pultimo, Supreme Chancellor of the Republic, ordered the destruction of Korriban and saw to the bombing of the Valley of the Dark Lords; the tomb lay buried under sand and rubble for millennia as the spirits of the Sith seethed under the surface of the ruined world. thumb|left|180px|[[Meetra Surik experiences a vision of the Battle of Dxun above the chasm.]] During the First Jedi Purge five years after the Jedi Civil War, the former Jedi Knight Meetra Surik traveled to Korriban in search of Jedi Master Lonna Vash. During her quest, she discovered the cavern in which the tomb was located, fighting through nests of shyracks and hssiss in order to enter the crypt via a carved bridge spanning a deep chasm. Guarded by a terentatek, the tomb emanated dark side energies and areas were cursed so as to project illusions into the minds of intruders in order to make them go mad. As Surik explored the caves and the tomb, she noted the dead terantatek which Jedi Knight Revan had killed on his quest to rescue Thalia May from the caves. While Revan had been ignorant to the tomb's existence, Surik was able to enter it and discovered several Jedi corpses. Determining that the Jedi had been driven mad and killed each other, Surik guarded herself from the traps and opened herself to the Force. Inside the antechamber she had a memory of Malak recruiting her and several other Jedi to join the Revanchists in the Mandalorian Wars; Surik refused to follow him to the dark side, and Malak and the Jedi who joined him, including Bastila Shan, attacked her, but she quickly defeated them. Deeper into the tomb, she was attacked by shyracks before she faced another memory, this time from the Battle of Dxun. In the vision she met some of the Galactic Republic soldiers who served her, all of whom told her that they had to cross a minefield to fight the Mandalorians. Surik walked through the minefield herself and defeated the Mandalorians on the other side. She encountered a vision of Kreia later on with Atton Rand, Bao-Dur and T3-M4. Inside the burial chamber, she fought a vision of Darth Revan, and, after exploring Ludo Kressh's sarcophagus, she escaped the tomb, this time more powerful and more aware of how her decisions made her who she was. The Tomb of Ludo Kressh first appeared in the video game: Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic II: The Sith Lords. Originally, all the party members were supposed to be present during Surik's vision of Kreia upon which the party members would either either defeat Kreia or attack Surik depending on the player's choices. At the end of the tomb, before Surik faces a vision of Darth Revan, Surik's doppelgänger is also supposed to attack her rather than just fade away. The doppelgänger has no Force powers, but a considerable amount of strength as well as a red double-bladed lightsaber. This was all cut from the final game but was restored in a mod called The Sith Lords Restored Content Mod. *Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic II: The Sith Lords Category:Sith tombs in the Valley of the Dark Lords