131767
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Danu
Danu
5501

Danu was a Human female who was the sister of Queen Sarna of Drogheda, who reigned during the Galactic Civil War. Danu clandestinely supported a popular revolution aimed at overthrowing the monarchy and replacing it with a democratic government after the Battle of Endor, serving as a key contact for the rebels inside the Drogheda Citadel. Danu played a crucial part in the revolt's success in 4 ABY, sending her sister into exile. A Human female, Danu was a native of the planet Drogheda, which maintained a traditional monarchy well into the Imperial Period. Danu was the sister of the Sarna, Drogheda's Queen after the Battle of Endor, when their world was gripped by uncertainty and unrest following the splintering of the Galactic Empire's power. One of Endor's major impacts on Drogheda was the rise of a popular revolution seeking to overthrow the monarchy and replace it with a democratic government. Sympathetic to the rebels' cause, Danu became their contact within the Drogheda Citadel, transmitting directly to them through a crystal transmitter she wore around her neck. With the revolution gaining traction in 4 ABY, Danu's sister Queen Sarna hired an old flame, smuggler-turned Rebel Alliance hero Lando Calrissian, to help protect her throne and sent Danu to retrieve him upon his arrival on Drogheda. Dahu and Calrissian came under fire while transporting Calrissian to the Citadel, and were nearly sent careening over a cliff to their doom. However, they were rescued by the timely arrival of Harlech, Commander of the Royal Guard. Sarna afterward sent Danu to observe a planned raid on a rebel encampment at Mount Meru Mine, where she witnessed regime forces gunning down fleeing men. Although they retrieved one living prisoner, a man named Dar, Harlech murdered him inside the Citadel when Calrissian attempted to question him&mdash;Danu came upon the scene immediately after Dar was shot. As events turned towards open conflict between Sarna and Calrissian&mdash;who had discovered the true nature of the conflict on Drogheda and did not want to oppose the people's right to self-determinance&mdash;Danu finally revealed herself as the rebels' contact within the palace, signaling a rebel assault on the Citadel by blowing up the building's munitions room. Calrissian ultimately served as a decoy, distracting Sarna's guards long enough for the rebels to seize the palace and force the monarchy out of power. Although grateful to Calrissian, Danu forced him to leave the planet immediately, and paid him to take Sarna into exile. Forever defined by her relationship with her sister, the Queen of Drogheda, Danu had a frosty personal dynamic with Sarna, and her political leanings ultimately led her to oppose her over the fate of the planet's government. Although never impressed by Lando Calrissian in her earlier interactions with him, Danu realized that she found him attractive upon his return to Drogheda, and delighted in irritating her sister by expressing interest in him. Danu was exceptionally skilled in a fight and a terrific shot with a blaster, and was proud of her abilities. Danu appeared in Star Wars (1977) 83, written by Linda Grant, illustrated by Bob McLeod and released in 1984. *Star Wars (1977) 83 Category:Drogheda residents Category:Females Category:Humans