132110
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Deerian
Deerian
8231

Deerian was a Human male general of the Galactic Empire's military who served Imperial Moff Glovstoak. The general had a granddaughter who was born in 17 BBY. In 0 ABY, Deerian attended one of Glovstoak's parties in the Moff's palace, where he met Emperor's Hand Mara Jade as "Countess Claria." One of Glovstoak's aides, Mink Bollis, attempted to bring the agent somewhere; however, the general stopped him and brought the Emperor's Hand to an office to separate her from Bollis before returning to the party. Shortly after, he returned Jade to the party. After the event, the Emperor's Hand traveled to the planet Coruscant, where she informed Palpatine that she had found out that Moff Glovstoak was embezzling funds and that Deerian was a loyal, honorable man, prompting the Emperor to give the general a job on Coruscant. thumb|right|300px|General Deerian protected Emperor's Hand Mara Jade (pictured) from Mink Bollis. Deerian was a Human general that served the military of the Galactic Empire. He was a member of Imperial Moff Glovstoak's staff and had a granddaughter born in 17 BBY.The Essential Reader's Companion dates the events of Allegiance, which establish that Deerian's granddaughter was eighteen, to 0 ABY. Therefore, she must have been born in 18 BBY. In 0 ABY,The Essential Reader's Companion dates the events of Allegiance to 0 ABY. the general attended one of Glovstoak's parties. During the event, he spoke with Emperor's Hand Mara Jade, who was operating under the pseudonym of Countess Claria. Jade told the general of her world's pirate problems before Deerian left to inspect the party's buffet. On his way to the buffet, he encountered Mink Bollis, one of Glovstoak's aides, and thought that he could help the Emperor's Hand's planet. Deerian subsequently introduced Bollis to Jade, with the former inviting the young woman to a quiet place where they could discuss her situation. The Emperor's Hand, who had been drinking the beverage known as ambrostine, acted as if the beverage had affected her, frowning and making it seem as if she was not feeling well. The general noticed her act, inviting her to sit down while Bollis offered to bring her somewhere where she could rest; however, Deerian, unwilling to leave Jade with Glovstoak's aide, reminded him that he was to assist the Moff with the guests before bringing Jade to an office where she could rest. thumb|left|250px|General Deerian met with Emperor's Hand Mara Jade in the Imperial Palace. (pictured) After the Emperor's Hand thanked the general for separating her from Bollis, he remarked that he would not want her to be or his granddaughter to be alone with the aide. Deerian then left the office and instructed a pair of guards to prevent anyone from approaching Jade before returning to the party. After escaping the office where Deerian left her, the Emperor's Hand entered Glovstoak's quarters and obtained data that showed he was embezzling Imperial funds before returning to the party with the general. Following the event, she traveled to the Imperial capital planet Coruscant, telling Emperor Palpatine of Glovstoak's activities; she also told him that Deerian was a loyal, honorable Imperial, asking the emperor not to punish him when he had his superior's staff arrested. Palpatine then transferred the general to Coruscant, where he was made a member of a team tasked with improving the planet's planetary defenses. Jade later met the general in Coruscant's Imperial Palace, where he informed her of his new position before leaving for a meeting. Jade believed that the Empire was worth fighting for as long as it could produce people like Deerian. She considered the general thoughtful, loyal, and honorable, and did not want the Empire to lose his service. Deerian was proud of his position on Coruscant and was shocked when he heard of Glovstoak's arrest. When he brought Jade to the office so that she could lay down and rest, he told her that the office's couches were "the thing" to take quick naps. The general looked older than Bollis and, to Jade's surprise, managed to stop Bollis by quickly moving the Emperor's Hand away from the aide. Although he served Moff Glovstoak, his loyalties remained with the Empire. Deerian wore a general's uniform. Deerian first appeared in Timothy Zahn's 2007 Allegiance. *Allegiance *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Galactic Empire admirals and generals Category:Humans Category:Individuals with he/him pronouns Category:Males