132826
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Sith_Embassy
Sith Embassy
3581

The Sith Embassy was the diplomatic mission of Darth Revan's Sith Empire to the Ahto City Civil Authority on the neutral Inner Rim planet of Manaan, the homeworld of the amphibious Selkath, from which they organized the shipping of kolto from that world. During the Jedi Civil War, the Sith lured young Force-sensitive Selkath, like Shasa and Galas, into the Embassy so that they could be seduced to the dark side and used to conquer Manaan from within. When the Sith captured a Republic probe droid that had information about the Republic's illegal kolto-processing station at the Hrakert Rift, the head of the Republic Embassy, Roland Wann, asked the amnesiac Jedi Revan to break into the Embassy and retrieve the information that the droid possessed. Revan penetrated the facility, retrieving the data core; during the raid he also encountered Shasa and her friends. He was able to convince them that the Sith were trying to conquer Manaan, proving their evil intentions; with this new information they returned to Ahto City. When Revan left the Embassy, he was arrested by the Ahto City Civil Authority, but was freed when he revealed to them the plans of the Sith. Revan then returned the information to Roland. Sometime later, the Selkath razed the embassy to the ground because they had been teaching Selkath youth the ways of the dark side. thumb|left|The Sith Embassy landing bay. The Sith maintained a private hangar bay within Ahto City that allowed for visiting Sith Masters to access the embassy by an airspeeder transport. The Embassy also maintained an Ambassadorial Commission. The KotOR player is given three options to enter the base. The first one is to interrogate a Sith prisoner for the pass card required to enter the embassy. Another is to decrypt a passcard for entry. The other way is to enter the Base using a transport in a private hangar in Ahto City Docking Bay. The ship is under heavy guard. Roland Wann gives the player a hangar key if one chooses to raid the hangar. The player may only enter the hangar if a security skill of 20 or higher is attained. *Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic *Star Wars: Galaxy of Heroes *Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic: Prima's Official Strategy Guide *Knights of the Old Republic Campaign Guide Category:Embassies Category:Locations of the Sith Category:Manaan locations