132924
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Admiralty_Plaza
Admiralty Plaza
5590

|terrain= |fauna= |flora= |interest= |affiliation=*Galactic Republic **Republic Navy }} Admiralty Plaza was a plaza on the planet Coruscant that housed the Admiralty of the Republic Navy during the time of the Mandalorian Wars. Each admiral in the Republic Navy had their own office at Admiralty Plaza, and orders were issued out to the Navy from there. In 3964 BBY, Admiralty Plaza was the site of the memorial service of Admiral Jimas Veltraa, who had been killed in action defending the Outer Rim world of Taris from Mandalorian siege. Admiralty Plaza was a square on the Galactic Republic capital world of Coruscant, that housed the Admiralty of the Republic Navy during the era of the Mandalorian Wars. Regardless of rank, each admiral in the Republic Navy received an office at Admiralty Plaza and a full clerical staff&mdash;from there, the Admiralty issued directives to the rest of the Navy.Knights of the Old Republic Campaign Guide }} In 3964 BBY, the Mandalorian warrior clans kicked off their war with the Republic in earnest, commencing a major offensive aimed at the Outer Rim ecumenopolis of Taris. With the shattering of the Jebble-Vanquo-Tarnith line meant to defend the world, Admiral Jimas Veltraa reformed the Republic Navy's scattered Outer Rim forces and did battle with the Mandalorians above Taris. Veltraa was killed in action, however, and was memorialized in a service at Admiralty Plaza. The war was finally underway, and military production kicked into overdrive&mdash;with the yards at Rendili churning out a Hammerhead-class cruiser every ten days, there were more career opportunities in the Republic Navy than ever before. Soon, Admiralty Plaza, once considered to be merely a retirement home for over-the-hill spacers, became a heavily desired posting. A later campaign in the war saw a massive Republic defeat at Serroco where Rear Admiral Saul Karath narrowly escaped death at Mandalorian hands, and eventually limped back to Coruscant. After arriving at Admiralty Plaza, Karath immediately tendered his resignation to the Admiral of the Fleet, although it was not accepted. Afterward, the Admiral of the Fleet publicly commended Karath for his bravery. Each admiral in the Republic Navy, including the Admiral of the Fleet, had an office and a clerical staff at Admiralty Plaza at the time of the Mandalorian Wars. There were other naval personnel stationed at Admiralty Plaza, and it had become quite the desirable posting during the war. Admiralty Plaza was first mentioned in The Admiral's List: Jimas Veltraa Memorial Edition, an in-universe news report appearing on the last page of the comic issue Knights of the Old Republic 13, written by John Jackson Miller, published by Dark Horse Comics, and released on January 31, 2007. *Knights of the Old Republic Campaign Guide Category:Coruscant public spaces Category:Plazas