133053
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Harlov_Jarnek
Harlov Jarnek
4502

Harlov Jarnek was an Imperial Moff who governed Tandon sector during the Galactic Civil War. Jarnek graduated from the Imperial Naval College, and was known as a coldly efficient leader. Harlov Jarnek graduated from the Imperial Naval College and methodically worked his way up through the ranks and by the time of the Galactic Civil War he was the Imperial Moff of the Tandon sector. Sometime prior to 0 BBY, Rebel Alliance operatives were able to insert the Covallon spy Dælar vuv Tertarrnek into his household disguised as a loyal pet. Jarnek became very fond of his new pet and kept the rebel spy by his side unaware that his "pet" was secretly feeding vital information to the Rebels. Months after the Battle of Endor, Jarnek went to the planet Spirador, where he owned a palace, and ensured his own personal security with a Star Destroyer planetary blockade and stormtroopers and armed security droids through the building, also keeping a blaster on a nearby table in his private rooms. However, Princess Leia Organa discovered his activities and sent Luke Skywalker on a mission to arrest Jarnek. Skywalker's lightsaber got rid of the droids. A broken droid interrupted Jarnek's leisure and scared the Moff but, before Jarnek could get his blaster, Skywalker entered his room. As Jarnek was not familiar with the introducer, Skywalker introduced himself when entering, then arrested Jarnek. Jarnek was a Human male who achieved success through a combination of hard work and ruthlessness. He was an efficient administrator and although not inherently evil would remove any obstacle in his path without hesitation or remorse. He would do whatever it took to make things run smoothly. He had a strong desire to share his success with someone else but his position and drive made him a solitary man which is why he bonded so closely with his "pet". Jarnek was skilled at being a leader and an administrator. He had basic combat training at the Academy but years of sitting behind a desk instead of leading the front lines had made him very rusty in actual combat. Jarnek only carried a hold-out blaster, a datapad, and a military comlink. Jarnek was designed by Stephen Crane for Cracken's Rebel Operatives, a supplement for the Star Wars Roleplaying Game that was published by West End Games in 1994. He was illustrated by Mike Vilardi. *A New Hope: The Life of Luke Skywalker *Cracken's Rebel Operatives *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Humans Category:Imperial Navy officers of the Galactic Empire Category:Males Category:Moffs of the Galactic Empire