133477
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Diskio_Khzrry
Diskio Khzrry
5111

Diskio Khzrry was a Xi'Dec burglar working with Alliance Intelligence. He and K'lial Khzrry were the only surviving members of the Khzrry family unit, which was once well respected in the Xi'Dec community. Diskio often worked for Alliance Intelligence retrieving captive Rebel personnel. Diskio Khzzry was one of the last surviving members of the Khzrry family unit. The rest of his family unit was vacationing onboard the Savage Pleasure when the Galactic Empire attempted to assassinate Senator Mael Sidras. Everyone onboard was killed and Diskio and K'lial shifted their allegiances to support the Rebel Alliance. Using their unusual species as a cover, the two insectoids would retrieve captured Rebel operatives who had been apprehended by local authorities. They would usually accomplish this through a combination of stubbornness, speed, and K'lial's smooth and pacifying voice. When this was not sufficient, they would rely on Diskio's ability to deactivate and disable all sorts of security measures. When Rebel agent Basal Moor was captured by TransGalMeg Industries, Incorporated guards on the planet Pako Ramoon, Diskio acted as K'lial's spouse while it approached and confused the guards with its voice. K'lial claimed it wanted to integrate Moor's genetic material into the Khzzry family unit. While the guards were distracted, K'lial removed the codekeys for Moor's restraints from the pocket of the head security guard. When the guards protested, Diskio acted offended and K'lial became indignant while it secretly unlocked Moor's restraints. The guards then tried to arrest the pair for interferring with their prisoner, but Diskio claimed that a matrimonial lawyer was about to arrive. He used a hidden remote to cause their landspeeder to crash through the lobby entrance and drew two blaster pistols out to begin firing. Climbing into the speeder, all three Rebel operatives were able to make their escape. Diskio was more quiet and reserved of the pair, letting K'lial do the talking while Diskio helped prepare their escape. Highly dexterous, Diskio was relied upon for when K'lial could not fast talk its way past local authorities. Diskio was skilled in demolitions, repulsorlift and space transport repair, and disabling security systems. He had eight legs that each ended in a sharp claw, chitinous plates underneath his abdomen, and at least five eyes on stalks. Diskio would carry lockpicking tools, a tool kit, and two blaster pistols concealed underneath his abdomen plates. Diskio Khzrry was designed by Chuck Truett for Cracken's Rebel Operatives, a supplement for the Star Wars: The Roleplaying Game that was published by West End Games in 1994. He was illustrated by Doug Shuler. *Cracken's Rebel Operatives Category:Alliance Intelligence members Category:Individuals of unspecified gender Category:Individuals with he/him pronouns Category:Individuals with it/its pronouns Category:Thieves Category:Xi'Dec