133503
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Lonn_Idd
Lonn Idd
8728

Lonn Idd was a Human male who fathered Vik and Nikki Idd. A droid engineer, he developed a laser device that was sought after by the Fromm Gang in 15 BBY, who tried to get him to install the device&mdash;originally intended for research&mdash;as a weapon on the starship of their leader, Tig Fromm. While he initially tried to refuse, he was forced to give in when Nikki arrived, for the gang threatened to harm Lonn's daughter if he continued resisting. After he installed it, however, he and Nikki were saved when Vik and the protocol droid C-3PO, the latter disguised in the protective armor of a Guardian Droid, distracted Fromm so that Nikki could spray him with Nova Starlight perfume. Afterward, the Idds captured the gangmembers, and Lonn repaired C-3PO's droid companion, R2-D2. thumb|right|350px|Lonn Idd (second from right), while captured by the Fromm Gang Lonn Idd was a Human male engineer who was the father of Vik and Nikki Idd. A noted scientist early in the Galactic Empire's reign, Lonn was known for droid development among other automata, often using specialized lasers in his research. Lonn also created a laser device to help his droid research; however, in 15 BBY, the Fromm Gang members Tig Fromm and Vlix Oncard invaded Lonn's repair station, interested in his lasers and believing him to be a helpless old man whose only companions were his children. Fromm tied him to a chair and tried to force him via interrogator droid to install the device to his starship to be used as a weapon. Lonn refused, but just as Oncard began to activate a device to try and threaten him with, Nikki arrived, as she was confused as to why her father had not greeted her and Vik upon their arrival as usual. Seeing what Oncard was doing, she burst in to try and stop him. Lonn cried out in alarm at the presence of his daughter, for Fromm now had a way to convince the scientist to cooperate: threatening Nikki. Lonn begged the gangmembers not to harm Nikki, who in the meantime was plotting a way to escape; she stomped on Oncard's foot, causing him to move aside and allowing her to activate a monitor so that her brother and the droids R2-D2 and C-3PO could see what was happening. Fromm again ordered Lonn to install the device, leaving the scientist with no choice. He fully installed the laser, hoping Fromm and company would promptly leave. Instead, Fromm decided to test the laser on the Idds' station, but as he informed them of the planned destruction, a Guardian Droid arrived behind him. Lonn was unsure where it had come from, but Vik, noticing the droid's shaking knees, could tell it was on their side. Fromm, who was interested in the droid's value on the black market, demanded that the Idds hand over the control disk for it. Vik came up with a plan and told his sister that she had no choice but to hand it over&mdash;despite having no control disk. Not realizing at first, Vik reminded her of what was in her pocket: a disk of Nova Starlight perfume, which Nikki sprayed in Fromm's face. While he was distracted, the Guardian Droid&mdash;protected by strong armor&mdash;attacked the gang's hover guard droids, overtaking them and then cornering the gangmembers so Vik could drop a large packing net on them. thumb|left|270px|Lonn Idd works on R2-D2 in his shop. Lonn approached the gang now that they were captured, assuring Fromm that he would have a word with the authorities. Vik then revealed that the "Guardian" was actually C-3PO in disguise. Once out, C-3PO's next priority was R2-D2, who had been damaged on the way to rescuing the Idds. As a droid engineer, Lonn repaired Artoo while Nikki told her side of the story prior to arriving. Once he was finished, he promised the droids that his children could fly them to the nearest Intergalactic Droid Agency when ready, but Artoo refused&mdash;he demanded that someone tell him what had happened, which made all of the Idds laugh. Lonn Idd researched in the name of science, not weapons, and was able to resist the methods of the Fromm Gang when they tried to force him to weaponize his device despite the fact that they intimidated him to the point that he was sweating profusely; however, he gave in once his daughter became involved. Idd had white hair and fair skin. A noted scientist, Lonn Idd's children thought highly of his skills: Nikki claimed he could fix any droid in the universe. Idd wore a green jumpsuit, yellow-orange shoes, and yellow-orange spectacles. He used a variety of tools while fixing R2-D2. Lonn Idd was created for the second issue of the Star Wars: Droids comic series, which was written by David Manak, illustrated by John Romita Sr., and published by Marvel Comics on March 18, 1986. While the issue shows Idd's laser device already built, with the Fromm Gang forcing him to install it on their ship, "The Droids Re-Animated," a StarWars.com article written by Rich Handley and Abel G. Peña and published on June 13, 2013, claims that Fromm wanted Idd to build it for him. This article defers to the comic. *Droids (1986) 2 *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Engineers Category:Humans Category:Individuals with he/him pronouns Category:Males Category:Scientists