134151
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Kaori_Batta
Kaori Batta
4663

Kaori Batta was a Human male and one of the greatest big game hunters in the galaxy. Kaori made a name for himself pursuing the galaxy's most dangerous creatures, often selling live specimens to zoos. He befriended Luskin Exovar soon after meeting him and became a fixture at Exovar's Emporium, leading expeditions into the frigid wilderness of Neftali. Born on Chandrila, Kaori was the only child of famed big game hunter, Kylo Batta, and a noblewoman. Because of his father's occupation he enjoyed a great deal of freedom in his childhood and was able to avoid military service. Kaori struck out on his own to make his name as well known as his father's which caused him to end up leading hunting expeditions to over a hundred different worlds. He built a reputation for bringing down the most dangerous beasts throughout the galaxy, often capturing them alive to sell to zoos for large sums of credits. Luskin and Kaori became friends shortly after they met as each recognized the adventurous spirit in the other. Given the opportunity to hunt on a hostile world like Neftali Kaori seized the opportunity and began leading ice modrol hunts across the frozen wastelands. These hunting expeditions proved to be both popular and profitable. Despite his skill and reputation bored aristocrats who had paid top credits for his services were not always happy with his advice. Kaori had canceled a hunting expedition due to brutally cold temperatures but one of his clients, an Imperial nobleman from Duros named Ghecharo insisted that they proceed anyway. Kaori lead Ghecharo and the nobleman's servant Kleck out into the wastelands where Kaori spotted the signs of a wounded modrol that took shelter in a cave. Against Kaori's advice Ghecharo and Kleck marched into the beasts den looking for a trophy. Instead the modrol killed Ghecharo and nearly ate Kleck as well if Kaori hadn't been there to shoot the beast as it charged out of the cave. Like his father, Kaori felt the strong pull of the great outdoors and the thought of serving in the confined quarters of a starship was not to his taste. Throughout his hunting career Kaori faced death in countless forms but he was a consummate survivor. He had a strong sense of humor that bordered on caustic however when faced with a life or death situation his intensity was almost frightening. He could remain utterly motionless for hours without losing focus or concentration. As befitting an expert hunter, Kaori was an excellent shot, especially with a hunting blaster. In addition he was well versed in all manner of ranged combat from archaic slugthrowers to artillery and mounted weaponry. In addition to his combat skills he was an excellent survivor able to live off the land and navigate even the most hostile of environments with very little equipment. He owned one of only three Exotac Arms EXP-7(a) Predator hunting blaster prototypes in existence. In addition on a hunt he always carried a Jengardin double-bladed vibroblade, cold-weather survival gear, and his ice modrol pelt cloak. Kaori Batta was designed by Paul Danner and Bill Smith for Wretched Hives of Scum & Villainy, a supplement for the Star Wars: The Roleplaying Game that was published by West End Games in 1997. Kaori was featured in a short story Beastie Chow within the book. *Wretched Hives of Scum & Villainy *Gundark's Fantastic Technology: Personal Gear Category:Chandrilans Category:Humans Category:Hunters Category:Males