134207
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Mink_Bollis
Mink Bollis
4500

Mink Bollis was a Human that served as one of Imperial Moff Glovstoak's aides. In 0 ABY, he attended one of his superior's parties in his palace, where he met Emperor's Hand Mara Jade as Countess Claria after being introduced to her by Imperial General Deerian. Bollis invited her to be alone with him; however, Deerian intervened, bringing the Emperor's Hand to an office separated from the aide. 250px|thumb|Mink Bollis met Emperor's Hand Mara Jade (left) at one of Moff Glovstoak's parties. Mink Bollis was a Human male who served as an aide to Moff Glovstoak of the Galactic Empire. In 0 ABY,The Essential Reader's Companion dates the events of Allegiance to 0 ABY. Bollis attended one of Glovstoak's parties in his palace. He encountered Imperial General Deerian, who had spoken with the eighteen-years-old Emperor's Hand Mara Jade&mdash;who was operating under the pseudonym of Countess Claria&mdash;about her planet's pirate problems and thought Bollis could help Jade, introducing the aide to her. Bollis, who kissed the young woman's hand in Old Core fashion, assured the Emperor's Hand that Glovstoak and his sector's government were ready to assist her, inviting her to a quiet corner where she could give him details about her situation. Jade then made it seem as if a beverage she had been drinking, ambrostine, had affected her. Knowing that drinking too much ambrostine could result in loss of inhibitions, the aide invited her to follow him to a place where she could lie down; however, Deerian stopped him and separated Jade from Bollis, bringing her to an office, where he confessed that he would not want her or his granddaughter alone with Bollis. The aide had a "predator's gaze," and Jade speculated that when they met, pirate problems were the last thing on Bollis's mind. He was younger than Deerian. Mink Bollis first appeared in Timothy Zahn's 2006 novel Allegiance. *Allegiance Category:Clerical workers and assistants Category:Humans Category:Males Category:Personnel of the Galactic Empire