135282
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Heavy_Weapons_Stormtrooper
Heavy Weapons Stormtrooper
6499

Heavy Weapons Stormtroopers, also called Heavy Stormtroopers, Heavy Assault Troopers, Imperial Heavy Gunners, or just simply Heavies were specially trained stormtroopers armed with large rapid-fire blasters or DLT-19 heavy blaster rifles, which could level anything in their path. During the Galactic Civil War, they were deployed to the battles of Endor, Theed, and Jakku. thumb|left|200px|A Heavy Stormtrooper, wearing alternate armor Heavy Weapons Stormtroopers, also known as Heavy Stormtroopers or Imperial Heavy Gunners,Star Wars: Force Arena were stormtroopers of the Galactic Empire's Stormtrooper Corps. The troopers were trained in the use of heavy weapons, such as the Z-6 rotary blaster cannon or the DLT-19 heavy blaster rifle. Some could be seen using MPL-57 grenade launchers, TL-50 Heavy Repeaters, or the T-21 light repeating blasters. They could wear standard stormtrooper armor, modified with the addition of a black pauldron, an IM-40 three-slot ammunition and tool pouch, and a backpack. Alternatively, they could also wear a more unique outfit, one still similar to the standard stormtrooper armor but with black shoulder pads, gauntlets, shin protectors and boots. Heavy Weapons Stormtroopers were often seen on the front lines of conflict but were also sometimes seen as guards for Imperial installations. They were primarily trained to defend combat zones as support squads to regular stormtroopers. Although their heavy weapons were highly effective, they required a cool-down period after use, leaving them vulnerable. Heavy Weapons Stormtrooper variants included the Heavy Sandtrooper, the Heavy Shoretrooper, and the Heavy Snowtrooper, who were utilized in more specialist environments. thumb|right|180px|A Heavy Weapons Stormtrooper defending an Imperial installation during the Spectres' rebellion. Five years into the Great Jedi Purge, Imperial Heavy Weapons Stormtroopers were stationed on Zeffo, the Imperial Refinery on Kashyyyk, Ilum and the Fortress Inquisitorius on Nur, where they encountered and were defeated by the Jedi Padawan Cal Kestis. Members of the Spectres fought Heavy Weapons Stormtroopers during their rebellion against the Empire. In the Galactic Civil War, Imperial Heavy Weapons Stormtroopers fought at the Battle of Endor against the Rebel Alliance on the moon of Endor, alongside the elite Inferno Squad. They laid siege to the Theed Royal Palace on Naboo, and also defended the Imperial Star Destroyer Eviscerator from New Republic forces at the Battle of Jakku. Heavy Weapons Stormtroopers first appeared in the new Star Wars canon in the mobile game Star Wars: Commander. *Star Wars: Force Arena *Star Wars Battlefront II *Star Wars Jedi: Fallen Order *Star Wars Jedi: Survivor *Star Wars Rebels: Recon Missions *Star Wars: Commander *Star Wars Outlaws *LEGO Star Wars: The Skywalker Saga *Forged in Battle *The Art of Star Wars Jedi: Fallen Order Category:Galactic Empire stormtrooper variants