136098
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Triumvirate_(Galactic_Alliance)
Triumvirate (Galactic Alliance)
5589

The Triumvirate was the ruling body formed by three prominent figures of the Galactic Federation of Free Alliances to serve as a constitutional replacement for the newly defunct Office of the Chief of State. After a coup carried out by the New Jedi Order and the Lecersen conspirators overthrew Chief of State Natasi Daala, it was believed by the usurpers that the position of Chief of State was too powerful, as shown by Daala's draconian use of power while in office. In an effort to prevent these abuses from happening again, acting Jedi Grand Master Saba Sebatyne and the leaders of the Lecersen Conspiracy decided to form a Triumvirate. Within the Triumvirate, a majority of votes was required to make decisions and set policies; thus no single individual could hold direct power over the Armed Forces or Intelligence Service.Legacy Era Campaign Guide The three members of the Triumvirate were Sebatyne, Kuati Senator Haydnat Treen, and Galactic Alliance Chief of Starfighter Command Merratt Jaxton. Jaxton was later replaced by Wynn Dorvan. The Triumvirate ended when, under orders from Grand Master Luke Skywalker, the Jedi, including the acting Grand Master and Triumvir Saba Sebatyne, withdrew from the Galactic Alliance. This caused the Galactic Alliance Senate to elect a temporary Chief of State, Padnel Ovin. Decades later, after the Sith–Imperial War, a Triumvirate was again in operation and submitted to the Empire after the defeat and surrender of the Alliance defense force at the Battle of Caamas. As a condition of the peace, the Imperial regime of Roan Fel allowed the defeated Triumvirate to remain as viceroys governing the remains of Alliance Space, though the Triumvirs were replaced by loyal Imperial bureaucrats. Under the overlordship of Darth Krayt, the Triumvirs kept a little of their political power but were still treated as Imperial subjects. By 137 ABY, Gial Gahan, one of the former Triumvirs, remained at the Mon Calamari Orbital Shipyards, while secretly providing supplies and weapons to Admiral Gar Stazi and the Galactic Alliance Core Fleet. Another government, known as the Galactic Federation Triumvirate, was formed in 138 ABY following the defeat of the Sith Empire. To show unity between the Empire and the wider galaxy, the Triumvirate was led of Galactic Alliance Admiral Gar Stazi, Empress Marasiah Fel of the Galactic Empire, and Jedi Master K'Kruhk. *Fate of the Jedi: Conviction *Fate of the Jedi: Ascension *Legacy (2006) 8 *Legacy (2006) 20 *Legacy Era Campaign Guide Category:Fel Empire Category:Galactic Alliance organizations