136188
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Salina
Salina
4411

Salina was an Ewok female who lived on the Forest Moon of Endor. In 3 ABY, she was talking with Princess Kneesaa a Jari Kintaka when the princess found an exotic flower, pointing it out to Salina. However, the flower caused Kintaka to shrink and fall through the cracks in the village platform, with Salina and other village members watching. thumb|right|250px|Salina and Kintaka discover the flower. Salina was an Ewok female member of an Ewok tribe that lived in Bright Tree Village on the Forest Moon of Endor. In 3 ABY, dates the events of the Ewoks comic series, which include the events of Ewoks 11, to three years after the events of Star Wars: Episode IV A New Hope, which corresponds to 3 ABY according to The New Essential Chronology. she was talking with Princess Kneesaa a Jari Kintaka when Kintaka discovered a damsel flower that members of the Fleebog species had left for the princess, hoping to lure her to their home so that she could help them defeat a beast known as the ra-lugg. Kintaka pointed out the exotic flower to Salina, who had never seen anything like it. The pair then went off to show the find to the rest of the village, with Salina asking Chief Chirpa, Kintaka's father, of the flower's origin; the chief was unaware yet impressed with his daughter's finding it. However, when the shaman Logray noticed the plant, he instructed Kintaka to drop it immediately, but it was too late&mdash;Kintaka began shrinking until she was small enough to fall through the cracks in the village platform with Salina and several other Ewoks watching. Salina had blue-and-brown fur and black eyes. Salina wore a yellow hooded cape that had a miniature five-pointed star accessory affixed to the hood's brim. Salina appeared in the eleventh issue of the Ewoks comic series, which was written by David Manak, illustrated by Warren Kremer, and published by Marvel Comics on September 30, 1986. *Ewoks (1985) 11 Category:Bright Tree tribe Category:Ewoks Category:Females