136490
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Bull_rancor
Bull rancor
4983

The bull rancor was a much larger subspecies of the common rancor. They were often found on the jungle world of Felucia. When prey was scarce, they had to revert to eating the giant fungi growing on their home planet; this was one possible explanation for their size and color. A form of bull rancor was also to be found on the mountainous planet of Dathomir. thumb|left|220px|A bull rancor attacked by hunters. The bull rancor was marked by its paler flesh, elongated tail and the males' immense horns that sprouted from their massive heads. These generally solitary creatures were incredibly dangerous, even to other rancors, and guarded the legendary "rancor graveyard" on Felucia. They were noted to have been much more aggressive than the females, and lesser male kindred, and the Felucians believed that they were incapable of being captured or tamed. They had extremely tough armor, but the eyes and mouth were two major weak points. However, a lightsaber blade could easily pierce it's thick hide. After the death of her master, Padawan Maris Brood began to slip to the dark side of the Force, whereupon she formed a strong bond with a bull rancor on Felucia. The creature became her new "pet" and was intensely loyal to Maris, willing to fight to the death to protect her. When she captured Senator Bail Prestor Organa, she warned him not to escape, as the bull rancor was "very hungry." When Galen Marek came to the planet again to free the Senator, Maris sent forth the bull rancor to stop him. However, the creature was slain by the Sith apprentice when he shot Force lightning into the creature's mouth and was subsequently stabbed in the back of the head with a lightsaber. When Galen Marek confronted Maris Brood in a thick jungle on Felucia, near the sarlacc pit where Shaak Ti was killed, she sent another bull rancor to stop him, but this one was also killed. thumb|A bull rancor, as depicted in the [[Star Wars: The Force Unleashed (graphic novel)|Star Wars: The Force Unleashed comic.]] There is a discrepancy between the bull rancors that appear in Star Wars Galaxies and the ones that appear in The Force Unleashed. The Galaxies ones more closely resemble normal rancors, as does the bull rancor depicted in the Star Wars Galaxies Trading Card Game. This may be because Maris Brood's bull rancor was possibly warped by the dark side of the Force, along with Brood. Also, there is a discrepancy between the depiction of Maris Brood's bull rancor in the Wii/PS2 version of The Force Unleashed video game, and the PS3/XBox360 version. The bull rancor in the Wii/PS2 version seems much larger than in the PS3/XBox360 version. In the DS version, the bull rancor is a sub boss fought during the first mission to Felucia. During the Maris Brood fight, she rides a regular rancor. *Kinect Star Wars *Star Wars: The Force Unleashed *Star Wars: The Force Unleashed novelization *Star Wars: The Force Unleashed graphic novel *Star Wars: The Force Unleashed II novelization *The Force Unleashed Campaign Guide *The Essential Reader's Companion *Enter the Unknown *Suns of Fortune Category:Rancor subspecies