137065
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Prevaro
Prevaro
5317

Prevaro was a Rodian who came with information of interest to Azool, whom he believed to be Prince Xizor in disguise. It turned out that Azool was actually Xizor's niece, who intended to take over Black Sun, and for that end she took Prevaro as her lieutenant. Knowing that Azool was looking for the human replica droid Guri, who had gone rogue after Xizor's death, Prevaro visited him at Azool's Antiques in the Southern Underground of Coruscant, and sold him relevant information. Soon after, Azool contacted bounty hunter Kar Yang to arrange her capture at the location the Stinger was last seen.Shadows of the Empire: Evolution 1 Prevaro returned to Azool, right when he was receiving an update from Kar Yang; Prevaro came to believe that Azool was Xizor in disguise, having survived from the Battle over Coruscant according to some rumors, and was ready to turn him in. To his surprise, Azool revealed that he was actually Savan, Xizor's niece. She explained her plan to take over Black Sun with Guri's help, and avenge her uncle's death. For this, she hired Prevaro and made him her lieutenant.Shadows of the Empire: Evolution 2 Prevaro was surprised to see that Savan had rigged Lintu, Yang's droid, to spy on his own master for her, to ensure that Yang remained faithful to her. Indeed, after informing Prevaro that the faked assault convinced everyone that Vekker was responsible, she mentioned Yang's treachery, and that she would complete his job. Prevaro doubted that Savan could handle Guri, but she ensured him that she had the codes to control her.Shadows of the Empire: Evolution 3 They determined that Guri had gone to the scientist Massad Thrumble and they went together to Hurd's Moon on a mission to capture Guri with Prevaro wondering how they would locate her in such a big moon. Following the traces of Lintu, Prevaro first spotted the droid's remains, being shot by Kar Yang. Soon Savan met her contact, Skahtul, who warned her that nobody was able to approach Guri after Kar Yang because of Thumble's defenses. Savan could not wait for an opportunity to show up and discussed other options with Prevaro, giving him money to find help for their task. Soon Prevaro presented a group of newly hired thugs of several species and sizes to Savan, and led the operation.Shadows of the Empire: Evolution 4 The band stormed Thumble's facility and had to fight a security droid and then a trapped door. With most of their team dead, and hearing some shooting in a corridor--unknown to them, Spinda Caveel and the Pike Sisters had a Lightfight with the Heroes of Yavin. Savan and Prevaro reached Thrumble's operating room, only to find it empty. They went to the remaining thugs near Guri's ship, the Stinger, who waited for her, and he and Savan split to look for her. It was Prevaro who spotted first Massad Thrumble helping Guri walk, and per Savan's orders he called the thugs against them. While Guri fought and defeated them, Prevaro and some thugs encountered the Heroes of Yavin. Prevaro said to the bewildered mercenary that he is not paid to ask questions and they shot against them, with Luke Skywalker, who cut off his right hand. Meanwhile, Savan reached Guri, but was thrown down by her.Shadows of the Empire: Evolution 5 *Shadows of the Empire: Evolution 1 *Shadows of the Empire: Evolution 2 *Shadows of the Empire: Evolution 3 *Shadows of the Empire: Evolution 4 *Shadows of the Empire: Evolution 5 *A Guide to the Star Wars Universe, Third Edition, Revised and Expanded *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Black Sun members Category:Males Category:Rodians