137067
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/A-OIC
A-OIC
5230

A-OIC (a.k.a. Doc) was one-of-a-kind medical/surgical droid. He was custom built by Massad Thrumble before his retirement as the admiral in charge of the Imperial droid research facility. Doc was a droid repair, modification, and reprogramming specialist. Such tasks required a high degree of mental flexibility and the ability to analyze and solve complex problems. This made Doc an unusually perceptive droid. In 4 ABY Doc was kidnapped by the Pike Sisters and taken to Kajiin Swamp were Spinda Caveel performed illegal operations on droids to make them more valuable on the black market. Doc informed Caveel of the illegality of the venture, but he was unimpressed. Doc analyzed his situation and came to the conclusion that his best course of action was to attempt an escape. In the process of modifying an old battle droid to Caveel's specifications, Doc surreptitiously altered its programming so that it would attack Caveel at a time of Doc's choosing.Shadows of the Empire: Evolution 2 The time came when the Human replica droid Guri arrived, defeating Caveel's bodyguards, Zan and Zu Pike. Caveel moved to strike Guri and was restrained and subdued by the battle droid.Shadows of the Empire: Evolution 3 Guri had come in search of Doc, having learned of his existence from his creator, Massad Thrumble. She sought to use Doc to perform the delicate neural restructuring required to remove her memories of the Black Sun and her hardwired assassination protocols, an operation which only Doc would be capable of performing.Shadows of the Empire: Evolution 1 Guri took Doc on a speeder bike to the Kajiin Swamp and surprised the droid showing that her ship was parked under the swamp for safet. They traveled to Hurd's Moon, where Doc reunited with Thrumble, and coordinated the delicate operation; the procedure was disturbed by Kar Yang who was killed by Guri. They resumed with Doc cautioning about the danger of damaging her neurocortex, but later expressed success with the progress of the binhex sequence.Shadows of the Empire: Evolution 4 Eventually Doc successfully removed Guri's assassin programming and memories of the Black Sun while leaving her personality and her other memories intact. Just a few moments after the surgery the facility was invaded by Savan and mercenaries. Massad led Guri to another room and on a screen they saw the groups of people around the facility, all coming for Guri. While Thrumble was reintroducing to her the Heroes of Yavin and why they were all after her, Doc admitted they did a better work on her than they thought, while he recognised R2-D2 and C-3PO, droid heroes. On their way to the Stinger, Guri felt a sudden headache which Doc identified as a delayed synaptic shock, onset of cerebellitis or post-traumatic brainstorm. They encountered a gang of thugs working for Savan, but Guri remembered her fighting abilities and defeated them, making Doc note that her muscle memory was still intact, and that the fight made her forget the headache.Shadows of the Empire: Evolution 5 *Shadows of the Empire: Evolution 1 *Shadows of the Empire: Evolution 2 *Shadows of the Empire: Evolution 3 *Shadows of the Empire: Evolution 4 *Shadows of the Empire: Evolution 5 *A Guide to the Star Wars Universe, Third Edition, Revised and Expanded *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Medical droids Category:Technicians