137196
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Mother_Vima
Mother Vima
5288

Mother Vima was a colony ship that, along with Constant, served as one of two support starships of the Beneficent Tasia. The three vessels departed the planet Grizmallt on an expedition to the dangerous southern quadrant of the galaxy in approximately 3900 BBY. The starships were filled with Human refugees who hoped to find fortune and glory while escaping a civil war on Grizmallt.Nexus of Power The expedition was led by the scout Kwilaan,Secrets of Naboo had the sponsorship of Grizmallt's Queen Elsinoré den Tasia, and was blessed by a famous Jedi Master. After Grizmallt lost contact with the Beneficent Tasia, the Grizmallti considered the expedition a failure. In reality, the vessels had become damaged and unable to make contact, and they ultimately landed on the planet Naboo. The refugees, which included a member of House Korden,Galaxy of Intrigue colonized the planet and became known as the Naboo. Mother Vima was later mentioned in a historical chronicle published by the Galactic Alliance Historical Council in 36 ABY. thumb|right|250px|Vima Sunrider, whose name is referenced in both the English and French names of Mother Vima Mother Vima was first mentioned in the DataBank entry in the 2001 LucasArts video game Star Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds. In the French edition of the game, the starship was named Mother Sunrider.Star Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds French edition Both names reference the Jedi character Vima Sunrider, who was introduced in the third issue of the Tales of the Jedi comic-book series, written by Tom VeitchTales of the Jedi 3 and published on December 21, 1993. In-universe, Sunrider was active in the century prior to the expedition from Grizmallt and was perceived as the greatest Jedi of her age. The StarWars.com episode guide for "Crisis on Naboo," the eighteenth episode of the fourth season of Star Wars: The Clone Wars," which aired on February 10, 2012,Star Wars: The Clone Wars: Episode Guide stated that one of Grizmallt's colony ships crashed on Naboo, but it was not specified which vessel met this fate. *Star Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds *Star Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds: Clone Campaigns *The New Essential Chronology *The Essential Atlas *Nexus of Power Category:Colony ships