137191
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Spinda_Caveel
Spinda Caveel
4511

Spinda Caveel was a rogue scientist who had a nefarious plan to do some droid reprogramming of his own. Based on Murninkam, he built a protected fortress surrounded by a Full-globe class-one Imperial shield. He was the employer of the Pikkel Sisters who stole A-OIC from Massad Thrumble, and he obliged the droid to reprogram some droids to serve him. In the process of modifying an old battle droid to Caveel's specifications, Doc surreptitiously altered its programming so that it would attack Caveel at a time of Doc's choosing.Shadows of the Empire: Evolution 2 The time came when the Human replica droid Guri arrived; at first Caveel thought that the intruder would perish in the Kajiin Swamp, but soon Guri entered his laboratory. After she defeated his bodyguards, Caveel moved to strike Guri and was restrained and subdued by the battle droid obeying Doc. Guri left with the stolen droid.Shadows of the Empire: Evolution 3 Caveel later went with the Sisters back to Hurd's Moon to capture Doc and Guri, with caution to bring Doc unharmed, and at least Guri's head intact.Shadows of the Empire: Evolution 4 As the three approached Thrumble's facility they heard noise: Savan and her mercenaries attempted to infiltrate it to capture Guri and were fighting with the scientist's security defenses. As they were running, they stumbled upon the Heroes of Yavin. They started firing but Luke Skywalker deflected one with his lightsaber, wounding Zan. Caveel's coat was damaged by a blast from a Wookiee. The three retreated, with Caveel lamenting his coat, and the sisters telling him that he was Chewbacca, the most famous of his species. Caveel was curious why Alliance heroes would be there and refused to leave with the terrified sisters to leave. Caveel, aware of their exploits, argued that they a matter of luck, making Zan to point out their destroying Jabba, the two Death Stars and also the Emperor Palpatine, and Zu that no amount of money could put them against "that kind of luck". Caveel drew his pistol, saying that he couldn't let anyone walk out on him, but the Sisters shot him faster. The fireshot was heard by the Heroes who came to their place to see Caveel's body lying on the floor. The sisters explained it was self-defense over a disagreement with their former employer and that they had nothing against them, before walking away.Shadows of the Empire: Evolution 5 *Shadows of the Empire: Evolution 1 *Shadows of the Empire: Evolution 2 *Shadows of the Empire: Evolution 3 *Shadows of the Empire: Evolution 4 *Shadows of the Empire: Evolution 5 *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Humans Category:Males Category:Scientists