138291
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/M%27Yalfor%27ac_Order
M'Yalfor'ac Order
5466

The m'Yalfor'ac Order was a military order of the Bitthævrian that ruled over parts of Guiteica, which used the Guiteica Militia to dominate their control across the planet. The Order were anti-Force-sensitive and Bothan, being dedicated to eradicating the two. thumb|right|250px|M'Yalfor'ac Order officers [[Tarlo Ganar, Colonel Tavier and Major-Guardian Tarrus]] The M'Yalfor'ac Order was based on the Guiteican continent of l'Quart'a and went under the leadership of Colonel Quaal Tavier Catharius and four of his subordinates (two officers from the Guiteica Militia, an Adnerem mercenary and Tarlo Ganar, a Khil tactician and naval commander). Apart from these two individuals, the m'Yalfor'ac Order was made up only of Bitthævrians. At times, they represented more than 80 % of the entire Guiteica Militia. It was dedicated to eradicating two groups of beings, Force-sensitives and Bothans. The Bothans were particularly hated due to their avoidance of direct confrontation, a cultural norm which the Bitthævrians could not comprehend nor stand for. They also hated the Galactic Republic, and attacked the Rebel Alliance due to their Republic-like values and methods and their goal of restoring the hated Republic. thumb|left|250px|M'Yalfor'ac Order weaponry Around five decades before the Battle of Yavin, the Galactic Republic increased its activity in the Kadok Regions. This was deemed unacceptable for Kadok-native Bitthævrians, who rebelled in protest, using their forces as an offending army. The Galactic Republic, wanting to see the Order destroyed, made the nearby Kaleesh species believe that the Bitthævrians constituted a real threat to Kalee, in order to secure their assistance. The M'Yalfor'ac Order lived with a reputation for having defeated several Jedi Knights shortly before the birth of the Galactic Empire, but in reality, they themselves had nearly been destroyed by a military force consisting of Kaleesh soldiers that was led by the Jedi. The military action decimated the m'Yalfor'ac Order, but it was reconstituted. When the New Order was established in the galaxy, the m'Yalfor'ac Order was not as eager to defy the Empire, since it regarded any different government as better than the Old Republic. Eventually, the Order had grown to a force numbering more than 700,000 fanatically loyal troops by the time of the Galactic Civil War, plus a great arsenal of outdated equipment, including obsolete snubfighters (such as C-73 Trackers, Toscan 8-Q Fighters and Z-95 Headhunters) and similarly-outdated ground vehicles (such as internal combustion treaded tanks, AT-PT Walkers and security Espo Walkers which rumor says were stolen from a CSA light freighter traveling through Kadok Regions en route to the Corporate Sector). Vulca Minerals tried to perform yttrium mining activities in Guiteica, but the pushy attitude of Vulca officers led to a more aggressive attitude from the m'Yalfor'ac Order. The crisis was witnessed by Vulca officer and later Rebel lieutenant Ayla Shar. Since that crisis, Kadok Resources, a Bitthævrian-controlled operation, managed all of Guiteica's exports. *Alliance Intelligence Reports Category:Bitthævrian culture Category:Military units Category:Wild Space organizations