138244
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Confederation
Confederation
21617

The Confederation, known also as the Corellian Confederation, was the galaxy-wide confederacy founded by Thrackan Sal-Solo, and led by Corellia, which fought the Galactic Federation of Free Alliances in the Second Galactic Civil War from 40 ABY until at least 43 ABY. The Confederation portrayed themselves fighting for freedom against a corrupt Galactic Alliance, who labeled them as terrorists. The Confederation was eventually defeated by the Galactic Alliance and forced to surrender in the last battle of the war. However, following the death of Darth Caedus, it took part in peace talks proposed by the Jedi Coalition. After the war the Confederation remained an independent government and emerged as one of the three major galactic powers, alongside the Galactic Alliance and Imperial Remnant. Earlier in the war, the Five Worlds had declared themselves independent as the Corellian Confederation, but the new government only grew when Lumiya maneuvered Commenor and Bothawui into joining the Corellians, to drive the Galactic Alliance blockade fleets out of the Corellian system.Legacy of the Force: Exile thumb|left|170px|[[Thrackan Sal-Solo, the infamous rebel who founded the Confederation]] At the insistence of Corellia's new allies, the name of the new interstellar coalition was simplified to just "the Confederation". Subsequently, they were joined by Fondor, then Bespin and Adumar, this gave the Confederation control of two of the galaxy's largest military shipyards, and some of the most important suppliers of blaster gas and proton torpedoes for their newly assembled Confederation Fleet. Having secured several of the galaxy's major shipyards, the Confederation Fleet assaulted Galactic Alliance shipyards, such as those at Gyndine, in order to limit their offensive capabilities. Also, Nal Hutta and Hutt Space joined the Confederation, and the appointment of former Imperial General Turr Phennir as the Supreme Commander of the combined Confederation military may indicate that sympathizers within the Imperial Remnant also made commitments to the coalition, in defiance of the pro-Alliance position of the Moff Council. After the events of Gilatter VIII, Dur Gejjen, Five World Prime Minister, was assassinated by Ben Skywalker on the orders of his cousin Jacen Solo, which took a heavy toll on the Confederation and its allies. Though Gejjen was dead, the Bothans were not ready to call it quits, offering twenty million credits per month to the Mandalorians for the exclusive services of a Mandalorian fleet with infantry. They were also greatly interested in acquiring a squad of the new Bes'uliik-class assault starfighters and were willing to pay a premium for exclusive purchasing rights.Legacy of the Force: Sacrifice As Jacen Solo, now the Sith Lord Darth Caedus, seized control of the Alliance, the galaxy finally erupted into a state of total war. The combined fleets of Corellia, Bothawui, Hutt Space, and Commenor engaged with Core World forces, hoping for a decisive battle with the forces of Coruscant. Although Balmorra quickly fell to the Confederation, the main assault force was eventually defeated at Kuat, and the failure of getting the Wookiees to join with them after the Battle of Kashyyyk left them out on a limb. However, the Alliance in turn suffered a major setback when the New Jedi Order, unwilling to further support Caedus, withdrew at Kuat and formed the Jedi Coalition. Over the following weeks, the Confederation was weakened by one defeat after another. The forces of Commenor and Bothawui were severely depleted by Alliance attacks, Centerpoint Station was destroyed by the Jedi and their allies, and eventually Fondor fell as well, during which Caedus won support of the Imperial Remnant. The tide had turned against the Confederation.Legacy of the Force: Fury'Legacy of the Force: Revelation The final stand of the Confederation was its participation in the Second Battle of Roche, along with the Jedi Coalition and the Alliance-in-exile. However, their fleets were trapped in the Roche system by Admiral Nek Bwua'tu and badly beaten. Darth Caedus, now more obsessed with defeating the Jedi than ever, left matters at Roche to Bwua'tu while he took a joint-Alliance/Imperial force to Shedu Maad, only to perish in the ensuing battle.Legacy of the Force: Invincible. With Caedus dead, the forces under his command aligned themselves with the Coalition. The combined might of the Jedi, the Alliance, and the Remnant forced the Confederation to surrender, ending the war. Despite this, the Confederation refused to rejoin the Alliance, but did take part in the Unification Summit on Coruscant in 43 ABY. What became of the Confederation after this is unknown, but it is clear that it had completely rejoined with the Alliance at some point prior to the Sith–Imperial War. The individual fleets reorganized themselves to become the united Confederation Fleet. The Supreme Commander of the Confederation Fleet was former Imperial General Turr Phennir. The fleet boasted several powerful warships, such as the newly constructed Corellian Dreadnaught, the Corellian Strident-class Star Defender, the versatile Bothan Assault Cruiser, the upgraded Hapan Battle Dragon, as well as the Imperial I-class Star Destroyer. The Confederation Fleet managed to inflict heavy losses against enemy forces, but its resources were very depleted near the end of the war. When the Jedi Coalition decided to reconstruct the Galactic Alliance with the help of the Imperial Remnant, after the death of Darth Caedus, the Confederation was forced to surrender and sit down to negotiate with the victorious side. During its existence as the Corellian Confederation, the secessionist government was headed by the Five World Prime Minister, although this office briefly changed to the President of Five Worlds. When its membership grew beyond the Corellian sector, the Confederation had no single Head of State, because its leadership consisted of political leaders and military commanders of individual planets, organizations and factions, though the Prime Minister of the Five Worlds retained much power and often spoke in the name of the Confederation. Therefore its policy was inconsistent - some members differed in terms of method of warfare and had various ideas on how to win the Second Galactic Civil War. However, the Confederation was known by close economical and military cooperation. To better coordinate military strategy and provide many fleets a single, united command, the office of the Supreme Commander of the Confederation Fleet was created. Later, the Supreme Commander virtually assumed the powers of head of state and after the war represented the Confederation at the Unification Summit. The staunch enemy of the Confederation was the Galactic Federation of Free Alliances, assisted by the Imperial Remnant. It also opposed the Hapes Consortium when Queen Mother Tenel Ka Djo was loyal to the GA government based on Coruscant, but later Confederacy leaders concluded a pact of neutrality with the Consortium. The Jedi Coalition was its co-belligerent; both factions fought the GA mostly independently of each other, though they shared intelligence about maneuvers and targets of their common enemy. When the Galactic Alliance split into two factions, one of the Confederation founders, Fondor, offered safe refuge to forces loyal to Cha Niathal and permitted them to use the planet to set up a government-in-exile, seeing in Jacen Solo, the current GA Chief of State, the greatest threat to all. The Confederation managed to find some powerful allies such as the Heritage Council and Hutts, while establishing trade contacts with the weapons-producing Mandalorians. It also tried to increase its forces in various ways like planning a political coup on Hapes, or offering assistance to endangered planets such as Kashyyyk. The main goal of the separatist's government was to liberate itself from the yoke of the strongly centralized and very restrictive Galactic Alliance, represented particularly in the person of Jacen Solo/Darth Caedus, a colonel of the oppressive secret police Galactic Alliance Guard and later Galactic Alliance Chief of State. Though some members of the Confederation saw a better future in the full independence of GA, others united under its banner, looking for opportunities to rule the galaxy by fear and force their potential enemies to obedience, for example by threatening to use superweapons like the Centerpoint Station. Military Command *General Turr Phennir - Supreme Commander of the Confederation forces. *Admiral Vara Karathas - Chief of staff and military head of the Corellian Defense Force. *Admiral Wedge Antilles - Supreme Commander of the Corellian armed forces (fired, withdrew support, joined Jedi Coalition). *Admiral Genna Delpin - Supreme Commander of the Corellian armed forces. *Admiral Babo - Confederate admiral in the Bothan Navy. *Admiral For'o - Confederate admiral in the Bothan Navy. *Admiral Traest Kre'fey - Confederate admiral in the Bothan Navy. *Aleson Gray - Dukat and Duch'da to Lady AlGray, commander of the Kendall. *Lieutenant Caregg Oldathan - Commenorian pilot, leader of Grayfeather Squadron. *Lieutenant Danen - Commenorian bombardier-gunner, member of Grayfeather Squadron. *Captain Hoclaw - Corellian commander of Valorum. Political leadership *Thrackan Sal-Solo - Head of State of Corellia, its Minister of War, later President of Five Worlds. *Vol Barad - Deputy President of Corellia (serving under Sal-Solo). *Aidel Saxan- Five World Prime Minister of the Corellian system. *Denjax Teppler- Five World Deputy Prime Minister of the Corellian system (serving under Saxan), later acting Five World Prime Minister, then Corellian Minister of Justice (serving under Gejjen) and Minister of Information (serving under Koyan). *Dur Gejjen - Five World Prime Minister of the Corellian system. *Gavele Lemora - Corellian Minister of Intelligence. *Rorf Willems - Corellian Minister of Defense. *Triumvirate - three Democratic Alliance politicians who shortly assumed power over the Five Worlds. *Sadras Koyan - Five World Prime Minister of the Corellian system. *Shas Vadde - President of Fondor. *Fyor Rodan - Prime Minister of Commenor. *Charr - Senator of Corellian sector. *Captain Han Solo - diplomat and pilot sided with Corellia (withdrew support, joined Jedi Coalition). *Jedi Knight Leia Organa Solo - diplomat sided with Corellia (withdrew support, joined Jedi Coalition). *Lady AlGray - Ducha of Relephon Moons, head of House AlGray, leader of the Heritage Council and Heritage Fleet. *Lady Galney - Ducha of Terephon, member of the Heritage Council, commander of her family fleet. Other members *Testan ke Harran - employee of the Dammant Killers, Confederate military weapon supplier. *Denjax Teppler's brother - operative in Corellian Security Force, later bodyguard to Aidel Saxan. *Harval Tommick - Chief of security for Aidel Saxan. *Lady Galney's consort - spy for the Heritage Council. *Lalu Morwan - former flight surgeon of the Kendall, secret operative for the Heritage Council. *Matric Klauskin - former admiral, traitor to Galactic Alliance, Commenorian hero. *Tathak K'roylan - deputy intelligence leader for Bothawui. *Sergeant Mezer - operative in Corellian Security Force. *Breyf T'dawlish - Bothan official. *Rikel - crewman aboard Centerpoint Station. Co-belligerents *Grand Master Luke Skywalker - Grand Jedi Master of the New Jedi Order (following Battle of Kashyyyk formed Jedi Coalition, which fought against Galactic Alliance forces in several battles). *Hapan Queen Mother Tenel Ka Djo - Head of State of the Hapes Consortium (following Battle of Kashyyyk declared an armistice with the Confederation, joined Jedi Coalition). *Admiral Cha Niathal - Chief of State of Galactic Alliance-in-exile (following Second Battle of Fondor set a government-in-exile at the Confederate planet, joined Jedi Coalition). *Admiral Natasi Daala - commander of Maw Irregular Fleet (fought against Imperial Remnant, ally of Galactic Alliance, joined Jedi Coalition). *Mandalore Boba Fett - leader of the Mandalorians (hired by some Confederate officials, established military contacts, joined Jedi Coalition). thumb|right|250px|Confederation members (in blue). *CorelliaThe Essential Atlas and the Corellian sector *Commenor system *Bothawui and Bothan Space *Fondor system *Bespin system *Adumar system *Etti IV and the Corporate Sector *Nal Hutta and Hutt Space *Jabiim system *Atzerri system *Chasin system *Saari Ha system and allied planets in the Halla sector *Eriadu system and the Seswenna sector *Rothana system *Las Lagon system *Altyr system *Beris system *Katraasii system *Obredaan system *Heritage Fleet Remnants *Other groups such as pirates or smugglers. *Legacy of the Force: Exile *Legacy of the Force: Exile abridged audiobook *Legacy of the Force: Sacrifice *Legacy of the Force: Sacrifice abridged audiobook *Legacy of the Force: Inferno *Legacy of the Force: Inferno abridged audiobook *Legacy of the Force: Fury *Legacy of the Force: Fury abridged audiobook *Legacy of the Force: Revelation *Legacy of the Force: Revelation abridged audiobook *Legacy of the Force: Invincible *Legacy of the Force: Invincible abridged audiobook *Crosscurrent *Fate of the Jedi: Outcast *Fate of the Jedi: Dramatis Personae *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia *The Essential Atlas *The Essential Guide to Warfare Category:Bothan culture Category:Corellian culture Category:Interplanetary governments