139613
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Feyet_Kiez
Feyet Kiez
5254

Admiral Feyet Kiez served in the Galactic Empire's navy during the Galactic Civil War. He commanded the Empire, the first Imperial II-class Star Destroyer, by 5 BBY. Over a decade later he absconded from the planet Anaxes with the Super Star Destroyer Whelm, which later resurfaced in the early campaigns of the reborn Galactic Emperor Palpatine. Feyet Kiez held the rank of admiral in the navy of the Galactic Empire during the Galactic Civil War.Starships of the Galaxy By 5 BBY,The Interrogator, which identifies as an Imperial II-class Star Destroyer, was in operation by the time of the events of , which The Essential Reader's Companion dates to 5 BBY. Therefore, the Empire, which Starships of the Galaxy identifies as the first of the Imperial II-class, must have also been in operation by that year. he commanded the Empire, the first Imperial II-class Star Destroyer. The Star Destroyer's crew was handpicked to be among the finest in the Empire, and the vessel's duties were to capture Rebel Alliance supply convoys and medical ships. thumb|225 px|Admiral Feyet Kiez fled Anaxes (pictured) with the Super Star Destroyer Whelm. Several months prior to the Thrawn campaign of 9 ABY, Kiez and his command crew fled the Core Worlds planet Anaxes with the Executor-class Star Dreadnaught Whelm, a Super Star Destroyer of the Anaxes-based Azure Hammer Command.Coruscant and the Core Worlds When Osted Wermis, Anaxes's Imperial commandant, surrendered the planet to the New Republic, he expressed confusion as to Kiez's intentions. New Republic Intelligence considered Kiez's disappearance with the Whelm to be the most concerning report out of several similar stories of high-ranking Imperials disappearing along with warships. In fact, Kiez had taken the Whelm to the Deep Core, where the Galactic Emperor Palpatine, who had been resurrected on the Deep Core world Byss following his death in 4 ABY, had summoned Imperial forces loyal to him. The Whelm later participated in the reborn Emperor's early campaigns. Feyet Kiez was first mentioned in the 2001 sourcebook Starships of the Galaxy, written by Owen K.C. Stephens and published by Wizards of the Coast for use with the Star Wars Roleplaying Game. *Starships of the Galaxy *The Essential Guide to Warfare Category:Imperial Navy admirals of the Galactic Empire Category:Individuals of unspecified gender Category:Individuals of unspecified species Category:Individuals with he/him pronouns Category:Personnel of the Dark Empire