141516
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Zez-Kai_Ell%27s_Padawan
Zez-Kai Ell's Padawan
5205

identified Revan's faction of Jedi as the Revanchists, which were first mentioned in the Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic game. *Galactic Republic *Sith Empire |masters=Zez-Kai Ell |apprentices= }} A Padawan was apprenticed to Jedi Master Zez-Kai Ell prior the Mandalorian Wars. At some point during the Galactic Republic's conflict with the Mandalorian Neo-Crusaders, the Jedi Padawan joined the Jedi Knight Revan's faction and entered the war. After the war's final battle at the planet Malachor V, Ell's Padawan fell to the dark side of the Force, having been seduced by Sith teachings imparted to him by Revan, who had become a Dark Lord of the Sith. thumb|right|250px|Zez-Kai Ell trained the Padawan prior to the Mandalorian Wars. A Padawan lived around the time of the Mandalorian Wars and was trained in the ways of the Force by the Jedi Order. The apprentice eventually came under the tutelage of Jedi Master Zez-Kai Ell. During the Galactic Republic's conflict with the Mandalorian Neo-Crusaders, the apprentice joined the Jedi Knight Revan's faction of Jedi and entered the war. In 3960 BBY,Knights of the Old Republic Campaign Guide Ell's Padawan fell to the dark side of the Force after the war's final battle at the planet Malachor V. The Padawan fell as a result of Sith teachings imparted by Revan, who had become the Dark Lord of the Sith of a new Sith Empire. In 3951 BBY, Zez-Kai Ell recalled his Padawan's fall to the dark side in a conversation with Meetra Surik,The character of the Jedi Exile, the protagonist of Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic II: The Sith Lords, was later confirmed to have been known as Meetra Surik in the novel The Old Republic: Revan. who had also participated in the Mandalorian Wars. In the conversation, Ell concluded that he knew why his Padawan followed Revan, stating that his apprentice had made the right choice to do so when so many others did not. Zez-Kai Ell's Padawan was willing to join Revan in his crusade against the Mandalorians, who were invading the Republic. After the war's final battle, the apprentice was susceptible to corruption by Revan and fell to the dark side as a result. The Padawan was sensitive to the Force and survived the Mandalorian Wars' final battle at Malachor V. Zez-Kai Ell's Padawan was first mentioned in the 2004 video game Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic II: The Sith Lords, developed by Obsidian Entertainment. The character is only mentioned in a conversation between Zez-Kai Ell and the player character. *Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic II: The Sith Lords Category:Fallen Jedi Category:Individuals of unspecified gender Category:Individuals of unspecified species Category:Individuals with unspecified pronouns Category:Jedi trainees of the Jedi Order Category:Revanchists