141877
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Pornography
Pornography
14139

|pages= |published in= |genre= }} Pornography was a type of media often produced in the form of holos, with some holoporn being illegal. It was available through both holoprojectors and mind evaporators, showing the user the virtual reality woman Mermeia. Between 0 ABY and 4 ABY, pornography could be found in the black market on planets that were either affiliated with the Rebellion or close to its bases. Around 1.5 ABY, the Wookiee Attichitcuk had an erotic interaction with Mermeia after receiving a mind evaporator cassette from the trader Saun Dann for the Life Day holiday. The Hutt-owned Kailio Entertainments was a distributor for one of the largest holoporn industries in the galaxy around 10 ABY, during which year the Lucin Syndicate also ran an illegal holoporn operation. By 13 ABY, the Hutt Beldorion possessed a large library of Hutt holoporn and hired the holo faker Liegeus Vorn to retape it. thumb|right|220px|Mermeia, as seen by Attichitcuk Pornography was usually produced in the form of holos. Such holoporn could be either legal or illegal. Pornography involving the virtual reality woman Mermeia&mdash;bearing a form created by the mind of the being who perceived her&mdash;could be accessed through holoprojectors, and also through mind evaporators, also known as proton chairs, upon entering specific cassettes, though this type of pornography did not necessarily have to involve Mermeia. Such pornography could involve singing and dancing. Pornography was also sometimes referred to as smut. In 0 BBY,"Smuggler's Blues" takes place concurrently with the portion of that The New Essential Chronology places in 0 BBY. a Snivvian approached the smuggler Han Solo in Chalmun's Cantina in the Mos Eisley spaceport on the planet Tatooine.Star Wars: Complete Locations, 2005 edition The Snivvian told Solo that they had a shipment of holographic Hutt pornography that they wanted delivered to the Kurluvion system, claiming that the system's population loved Hutt holoporn. Solo refused the job offer, telling the Snivvian that he had integrity and considered being frozen in carbonite preferable to smuggling Hutt pornography. Between 0 ABY and 4 ABY,Galaxy Guide 6: Tramp Freighters and its second edition are both set between the events of and , which corresponds to between 0 ABY and 4 ABY per The New Essential Chronology. it was possible to find pornographic holos on the black market of planets affiliated with the Rebellion against the Galactic EmpireGalaxy Guide 6: Tramp Freighters as well as planets located near the Rebellion's bases. Between 0 ABY and approximately 1 ABY,The Threat of the Conqueror expansion of Star Wars Galaxies Trading Card Game takes place at some point during Star Wars Galaxies: An Empire Divided events, which are set between 0 ABY and approximately 1 ABY per the reasoning here. a Twi'lek watched a hologram of Mermeia dancing. thumb|left|240px|Saun Dann set up the mind evaporator for Attichitcuk. Around 1.5 ABY, the trader Saun Dann gifted the elderly Wookiee Attichitcuk a cassette for the Wookiee holiday Life Day. Dann inserted the cassette into a mind evaporator in Attichitcuk's home in the city Rwookrrorro on the planet Kashyyyk.Tyrant's Test Wishing the Wookiee a happy Life Day, the Human turned the mind evaporator on and left Attichitcuk alone. Through the mind evaporator, Attichitcuk saw Mermeia, whose form was created by his mind. During the following erotic experience, Mermeia flirted with Attichitcuk and sang to him a song about her longing to stay with the Wookiee before vanishing into a kaleidoscopic background. Elsewhere during that holiday,In a on the StarWars.com Message Boards forum, Holocron keeper Leland Chee has stated that Life Day is celebrated once every three years; that the one depicted in The Star Wars Holiday Special takes place around 1.5 ABY; and that the several Life Days portrayed in the Star Wars Galaxies video game each occurred around Christmas in real-world time. Given that the timeline of Galaxies only spans from 0 ABY to approximately 1 ABY per the reasoning here and therefore can not fit multiple Life Days, this article treats all of the holidays within the game to be the same Life Day that occurred around 1.5 ABY as depicted in The Star Wars Holiday Special. a spacer bought a proton chair during the Life Day and brought it home, after which they used it to listen to a voice speak to them. thumb|right|220px|Kailio Entertainments (logo pictured) was a holoporn distributor. Around 10 ABY,Galaxy Guide 11: Criminal Organizations is set around six years after , the events of which The New Essential Chronology dates to 4 ABY. the Hutt-owned Kailio Entertainments was a distributor for one of the galaxy's biggest holoporn industries. Around the same time, the Lucin Syndicate was based on the world Majilop, from which they operated a major Outer Rim Territories center for production and distribution of illegal holoporn. By 13 ABY,The Essential Reader's Companion dates the events of Planet of Twilight to 13 ABY. the Hutt ruler Beldorion of the planet Nam Chorios owned a large library of holographic Huttese pornography and commissioned the Human holo faker Liegeus Vorn to edit and retape the collection. That year, Vorn shared that fact with the New Republic representative Leia Organa Solo and mentioned that not even his former job of ghost-writing love poems for Gamorreans had made him as frightened. thumb|right|150px|Pornography first appeared in The Star Wars Holiday Special. Pornography first appeared in the film The Star Wars Holiday Special, released in 1978. According to producer Mitzie Welch, Mermeia's scene in The Star Wars Holiday Special was intended to be softcore pornography that would pass through censorship. The special's script describes Saun Dann's actions while giving Attichitcuk to be "as if he is giving [Attichitcuk] the most X-rated piece of literature in the galaxy."The Star Wars Holiday Special script as posted on the fansite Pornography was first identified by name in an official Star Wars source via the Star Wars: The Roleplaying Game sourcebook Galaxy Guide 6: Tramp Freighters, written by Mark Rein-Hagen and Stewart Wieck and published by West End Games in 1990. Furthermore, the comic story "Smuggler's Blues" written by the Fillbach Brothers identifies it as "smut." The story was included in the fourteenth issue of the Star Wars Tales comic book series by Dark Horse Comics, released on December 11, 2002. In the real world, pornography is the depiction of erotic behavior. *The Star Wars Holiday Special *Planet of Twilight *Galaxy Guide 6: Tramp Freighters *Galaxy Guide 6: Tramp Freighters, Second Edition *Galaxy Guide 11: Criminal Organizations Category:Entertainment Category:Media