142150
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Hydra_(Grand_Inquisitor)
Hydra (Grand Inquisitor)
41751

Hydra was the assistant of the Grand Inquisitor Malorum and later replaced Malorum as Grand Inquisitor after his death six months after the rise of the Empire.The Last of the Jedi: Death on Naboo during the early years of the Galactic Empire. In her early life she served her savage uncle but eventually left him to join the Empire. She was so efficient that she got the notice of Darth Vader who recruited her to keep watch on the activities of other Inquisitors, who was close to Senator Sano Sauro, and if any assignments came from Emperor Palpatine. After her promotion to Grand Inquisitor, she had a business relationship with Sano Sauro, which the former Senator commented on in a conversation with Bog Divinian, the Imperial Governor of Samaria and Rosha. Later, Hydra was sent with Ferus Olin to Alderaan in search of a Force-sensitive child. And after that was sent by Vader to track Herk Bloomi's cruiser which Clive Flax and Astri Oddo had stole. Hydra was raised in a tiny hut with her silent but savage uncle. To which darkness gave her a sense of belonging rather than comfort. They had been scratching out their existence on Hydra's homeworld where Hydra served and endured her uncle when Palpatine had rose to power and declared himself Emperor. Something she watched over the HoloNet news. Her uncle wasn't too excited about Palpatine's rise, but the idea of one man taking on the challenge of controlling a whole galaxy thrilled Hydra. She would continue cleaning floors one day, herding animals the next. Lying awake on cold nights had brought her the realization that her current situation in life had all but prepared her for exactly how the new galaxy turned, as she knew how to serve power, knowing both cunning and subservience. She felt she could use those skills to serve a better master and so left that day, knowing she belonged with the Empire. It took Hydra months to find the right way to break into the Empire, having found work but no chance to rise as she didn't speak much, meaning she never learned the art of flattery that helped so many rise the ranks. She was only good at watching and efficiency, but she eventually realized that the Empire valued efficiency over everything and she was sure that would transform the galaxy. Her efficiency eventually garnered the notice of Darth Vader who put her on the Inquisitor team, eventually becoming Malorum's assistant. thumb|left|250px|Hydra originally served Grand Inquisitor Malorum. Vader often checked in with Hydra, to ensure she was advancing and receiving important assignments. Something that confused Hydra as she admired Vader because he didn't seem to be the type to care about things like that. Eventually she realized why Vader was interested in her climbing the ranks, because Vader wanted her to report to him about other Inquisitors activities, who was close to Senator Sano Sauro, and if any assignments came from the Emperor. Hydra was pleased to be valued by someone so powerful, eventually getting her first reward when she was assigned the position of Grand Inquisitor after Malorum's death on Naboo six months after the rise of the Empire. She began investigating a human male with "unusual powers" who kept popping up and disappearing. The human male was in fact the Jedi Master, Ry-Gaul. Additionally at the same time she worked with the former Senator, Sano Sauro with finding Force-adepts to enlist into the Imperial Naval Academy through SAM, In what Sano Sauro referred to as a valuable friendship. Governor Bog Divinian was surprised at how Sauro had made such a quick relation to Hydra given his recent demotion after the True Justice fell into the hands of allies of Ferus Olin known as Solace, Oryon, Trever Flume, Roan Lands, and Dona Telamark.The Last of the Jedi: A Tangled Web Dexter Jettster, Keets Freely and Curran Caladian had learned of Hydra's hunt for Ry-Gaul and Dexter informed Solace, Clive Flax and Astri Oddo, of the hunt, telling them that Hydra's existence was something that Ferus Olin needed to know. Solace, Clive and Astri got to Ry-Gaul first and brought him back to Dex's safehouse only to learn that Astri's son, Lune Oddo Divinian, had been kidnapped to be enrolled into the Imperial Naval Academy. thumb|right|250px|Palpatine put the Inquisitors, including Hydra, under Ferus Olin's command. After Roan Lands death, Ferus Olin was put in charge of the operation to find Force-adepts for the Imperial Naval Academy by Emperor Palpatine, who put the Inquisitors at his disposal, including Hydra. Ferus later visited the office of the Inquisitors and Hydra's office in the Senate tower on Coruscant, where Hydra allowed Ferus to use her dataport and console to look at the list of suspects. Ferus found Ry-Gaul's description as the highest priority, with others such as a pilot, a teacher, a bounty hunter, and an Alderaanian toddler, a list Ferus found promising to forward his goal of gathering surviving Jedi to fight the Empire. Ferus informed Hydra he'd study the list and get back to her with priorities, putting the toddler at the bottom of the list, finding the reason given for her inclusion to be most likely be a coincidence. He requested Hydra to arrange a starship with a hyperdrive to which Hydra had already requested for in advance. Once Ferus sorted the list of suspects by priority, Hydra had wanted to leave immediately, however, Ferus was able to put off their hunt until the next day saying he needed to do additional research. Unbeknownst to Hydra, Ferus Olin actually put it off to infiltrated EmPal SuRecon to attempt to learn who Darth Vader really was and if he had been treated there. In the process Ferus rescued Lune Oddo Divinian, with the assistance of Linna Naltree, who stayed behind, Trever Flume, and Maggis. After Lune was safe at Dexter's safehouse Ferus Olin contacted Obi-Wan Kenobi and reported to him the list of suspected Force-adepts, to his surprise Obi-Wan told him to focus on the toddler from Alderaan for reasons he couldn't tell Ferus. Kenobi told Olin that he must dismiss the report but first pretend to investigate it. Ferus, who was initially against the idea eventually gave in and decided to follow through on Obi-Wan's orders. thumb|left|250px|Ferus Olin and Hydra investigated Alderaan together. Hydra and Ferus went to visit Alderaan, first meeting with Bail Organa, Breha Organa and Deara in the Palace, where Ferus followed the protocol given to him, asking for their permission to look into Alderaan's official records, security reports, domestic surveillance, and recorded communications. The Organa's and Deara knew that this was a protocol for good appearances, rather than an actual request, and had to say yes as the Emperor allowed himself access to all planetary records. They assured Ferus and Hydra that they don't spy on the citizen's, that a citizen did not send the report of the toddler, and that they may search but assured them they had nothing to hide. Ferus and Hydra left the Palace and Ferus suggested investigating the office of Official Records first, however, Hydra caught Ferus off guard when she broke her silent nature to inquire why he had been so respectful to Bail when he was an enemy of the Emperor trying to take down the Empire. Ferus responded that they needed to avoid confrontation on Bail's grounds, to which Hydra corrected him saying Alderaan is the Empire's grounds. She found it curious that Ferus referred to Alderaan as Bail's grounds. Ferus disregarded his slip up as speaking of perception, and continued, explaining that if they push Bail too hard they will risk losing access to things they aren't aware of yet. Hydra stayed silent afterward as they made their way to office. On their way to the office, Ferus thought about how he needed to dump Hydra somewhere as she was too perceptive and might catch onto the fact that he is only pretending to investigate. He winded up leaving Hydra with their airspeeder and began scouting around the city on his own, making his way to Grasslands Park where the toddler saved their caregiver. Ferus learned of a festival happening the next day and spotted someone spying on the park, he made his way to the spot of the person spying and found a string of numbers and letters. thumb|right|250px|Darth Vader's presence on Alderaan made Hydra and Ferus's investigation easier Hydra knew of the festival from research she did into the park and the following day she and Ferus made there way to the park when the festival was held to question parents and try to find toddlers. Hydra and Ferus split up to cover more ground. Ferus winded up spotting a young girl, Winter, and the toddler, learning her name was Leia. Realizing Leia was Bail's daughter, he wondered if Bail or Obi-Wan knew Leia was Force-sensitive. He assumed Obi-Wan knew, and that he knew the toddler was Leia. Ferus and Hydra met outside the park, Hydra asked if Ferus knew anything, and intending to protect Leia from the Empire and Hydra, said he found nothing. Later that morning, Ferus left Hydra at the office of Official Records while he visited the palace and briefly interacted with Darth Vader. Hydra, later in the day contacted Ferus to see if he had found anything, Ferus said he hadn't and how the document search was going. Hydra replied saying she had full cooperation now, thanks to Vader's presence, and that the Aldeeranian's feared an Imperial takeover. Ferus encouraged her to keep looking and to report to him if she found anything before ending the call. Ferus was confident she wouldn't learn anything about Leia in the documents but worried about Hydra finding Leia. While searching through the documents Hydra made a break in the investigation, discovering there was a weather forecast satellite on the day of the accident and there were ground photos. The photos were supposed to be deleted at the end of each day, but with some digging into the computers she found a cache with old information including the photos. The photos didn't display the incident but she was able to use them to identify many people who were in the park on the day of the accident through their airspeeder's ID tags. She reported her findings to Ferus and explained they wouldn't be able to identify on the ones who arrived on foot, but could squeeze the people they know for names and really get somewhere and then she'll have everyone who was in the park that day and then she could interview them. Ferus was startled at her findings, but-keeping up the facade of an Inquisitor-told her he'd observe the interviews. As Ferus disconnected the call he got the impression that Hydra was frustrated at his incompetence, or was questioning his loyalty. They proceeded to interview for the rest of the day, Hydra was an effective inquirer and was thorough with her questions, but the Alderaanian's and even the children said it was too crowded and only gave them common first names on the planet. By the end of the day they had interviewed everyone and Hydra was barely holding her fury at the non-disclosive interviewee's. She checked the list of names and Ferus noticed she missed one, Sona Ziemba, finding it strange that Hydra had dismissed her considering how attentive she usually was. They made their way to her apartment where Ferus was shocked to see that Sona was the same woman who informed him of the festival. Hydra asked questions surrounding the accident to which Sona explained that she saw nothing, and that some of the parents were talking about it. She lied saying she didn't know their names, a lie Ferus let slip, wanting to dismiss the investigation to protect Leia. Hydra made a note on her datapad as Sona's husband, Dartan entered the apartment. Ferus immediately recognized him as the one who was watching the park with electrobinoculars and as the spy he was tracking. He came to the conclusion that he must've reported the incident with Leia to the Empire. Hydra told Dartan that their questions were strictly routine. Ferus caught on that Hydra knew Dartan was a spy, and that was why she hadn't bothered questioning Sona, as Dartan would've told her everything he knew. Hydra wished them a good evening, told them that if they had further questions that they would return, and then she and Ferus left the apartment. thumb|left|250px|Raymus Antilles was caught by a spy while trying to get a message from Bail Organa to Mon Mothma As they made their way to street level, Hydra informed Ferus that an Imperial Governor would be installed on Alderaan tomorrow and that Bail was foolish to try and get a message out of Alderaan through Raymus Antilles while Vader was there, commenting that Alderaan would learn that they'd have to cooperate with the Empire to operate. Ferus-who had listened in on the conversation where Raymus was sent to get a message to Mon Mothma-noted that their must be another spy on Alderaan inside the palace, and that Dartan couldn't have reported it as Raymus left secretly. Ferus met Bail Organa and spoke with him and Obi-Wan Kenobi, who was speaking over a holo-communication, about the spy inside the palace and Moonstrike. Obi-Wan advised Bail not to join Moonstrike yet, and they all agreed that they had to make a plan to catch the spy. After the meeting with Obi-Wan, Ferus and Bail continued their conversation, trying to figure out the spy. Ferus realized it was the advisor and sister to Breha, Deara, as she was the only other person in the room with Bail, Breha and Antilles, when Antilles was given his mission. Ferus then made his way to the open-air market where he had bumped into Deara previously, and spotted Dartan there. He found out the market was storing weapons. Ferus made his way back to the palace and explained to Bail Organa that Dartan was the conduit. Hiding the weapons on Alderaan and then revealing them at the right time on behalf of the Empire so that they could invade Alderaan, install an Imperial Governor and make it seem like shutting down resistance that wasn't there. He suggested that Bail should say Alderaan was armed, to bring the Empire here, and hide the weapons before they get there. Then they could bring in Dartan for questioning, and discredit him, discrediting the weapons allegation, discrediting Dartan's report on Leia, and making the Empire look like fools. Bail found the plan diabolical but liked it and got to work. thumb|right|250px|The junior member of an Inquisitor team could file a report of what they thought if they disagreed with other Inquisitors (Inquisitor pictured) Hydra later asked Ferus as to why he was reporting that the toddler report was unfounded, especially since she hadn't reached that conclusion. Ferus explained that their four day investigation brought up little, and he finds it more likely a coincidence. Hydra was skeptical, saying that there was a reason that the Alderaanian's weren't talking to them. Ferus explained it was because they hated them. Hydra discarded their hate, saying that they were hiding something. Ferus explained that they are scared of them, but to not confuse their fear with actually hiding something, reminding her that he was her superior. Hydra replied, saying that was technically true, to which Ferus asked if it was or wasn't, not wanting to push Hydra too hard as he knew she had enough contempt for him to push back, and because he had to discredit her as well. Hydra said it was true that he was her superior and explained that in cases where Inquisitor's don't agree, the junior Inquisitor member of the team could write a dissenting report. Ferus encouraged that she do so if she felt there was foundation, before mocking her by saying she'd be clogging up the Imperial archives with another report, and suggested that they move to searching for the other name's on the list. Hydra said she'd file the report immediately, adding that soon Alderaan would realize that the Empire are in charge and then investigations such as this one would go smoothly. Reassuring that the governor would see to it. Ferus almost smiled at her smugness but instead nodded and agreed. The Empire soon arrived on Alderaan, expecting to expose the weapons that Vader had shipped there and take over the planet with an Imperial Governor. Both the Emperor and Vader arrived with the Governor and sent stormtroopers to search the open-air market for the weapons to find nothing. Now having no reason to take over, the Governor and stormtroopers retreated. However, before leaving, Palpatine recognized Ferus's efforts in his investigation and promoted him from Inquisitor to Vader's second-in-command, much to Vader's disdain. Unbeknownst to Ferus, throughout the whole investigation, Hydra had reported his activities to Vader, though she didn't find much as she only kept her eyes and ears open. thumb|left|250px|Ferus Olin, Trever Flume, and others tried to bring resistance leaders to Ferus's hidden base on an asteroid Ferus returned to Coruscant, telling Hydra he was heading there to receive their next orders. In actuality he, along with Solace, Ry-Gaul, Trever Flume and Flame, were gathering sixty resistance leaders to start the first Moonstrike meeting on Ferus's asteroid. In the mean time, Hydra was tieing up some loose ends before being scheduled to meet with Ferus on Coruscant. Darth Vader visited Eve Yarrow's retreat on Revery, expecting to meet with her, however, she wasn't home. Vader then contacted the Emperor about Yarrow's absence. Palpatine queried if that meant that operation Twilight would have to be cancelled, however, Vader said no, saying it was already underway and it was time to awake their mole, and then he will check the emergency drop. Clive Flax and Astri Oddo listened in, having came to Yarrow's retreat to learn if Flame was indeed Eve Yarrow,, Clive didn't pick up all of Vader's conversation with the Emperor due to Vader's footsteps, only hearing something about the Bespin system, Coruscant, and that the preliminary weapon will be tested and that Twilight will come to a close. Vader ended his transmission and queried the caretaker of the retreat about if anyone else had visited besides him. The caretaker lied, saying only she, Yarrow and Vader had visited, boring him with her lengthy conversation, Vader left. Then Clive and Astri returned to their ship. They tried contacting Ferus and the others but with no use as they were on comm silence, so they contacted Toma to tell him what they knew about Twilight, Toma explained what Ferus and the others were doing. When Toma brought up the Galactic Luxury Crusier Convention, Clive realized that that was where he had seen Flame before, now definitively knowing that Eve Yarrow and Flame were one in the same. Clive told Toma to contact Ferus and the others and warn them not to bring the leaders to the base, and that Flame was an Imperial agent. As Vader was returning to Coruscant he got a report from a high-ranking member of the Security Corps that there had been an attempted robbery on Niro 11, but the criminals fled in Herk Bloomi's cruiser before they got be captured. The criminals were in fact Clive Flax and Astri Oddo who were investigating Eve Yarrow's bank accounts to try and link them to Flame Vader ordered for Bloomi to be interrogated and requested for the cruiser's registry number to be put through the highest security search. Vader began to worry if the "robbery" on Niro 11 was related to Eve Yarrow as he felt something off at her retreat and Yarrow kept bank accounts on Niro 11. He contacted Hydra, asking where Ferus was. She explained he was Coruscant, when Vader asked if she heard from him since she said no and that she was tieing up loose ends. Vader ordered her to forget her orders and gave her new orders to search for Bloomi's cruiser, adding that she must detain the ship and arrest everyone aboard, telling her to give it her highest priority. Hydra obeyed and Vader warned that this was her last chance to redeem herself after how badly things went on Alderaan. He added that she should contact him once she completed his orders and then he might have further need for her. thumb|right|250px|Hydra hunted Astri Oddo and her partner, Clive Flax, at the command of Darth Vader While waiting for reports, Hydra mused about her upbringing, how far she had come, and how the Emperor was displeased with her work on Alderaan. She felt as if her status was sliding but Vader had given her this assignment and she had no doubt that if she did well that Vader would report her prowess to the Emperor. But worried about failing the job, as she had nowhere else to go. Eventually she got a report from a mechanic on the Dexus-12 spaceport about the cruiser landing at an out-of-the-way-spaceport, and filing fake registry numbers. She ordered the ship to be detained and began her journey to the spaceport in her cruiser. Clive and Astri fled the Dexus-12 spaceport, with Clive getting new ID profile and registry for Bloomi's ship. However, they were held up at another spaceport for an unusually long amount of time by Imperials, who made sure no ships would leave. After questioning some spacers, Clive learned that the ships had been checked over and that one of the spacers suspected they were waiting for an "Imperial topper" to come along and make an arrest. Clive reported back to Astri Oddo about the Empire waiting to arrest them. It was then that Hydra arrived in her ship, landing in front of a bulk freighter, and in her hurry, leaving the ramp to her cruiser down. Clive got the idea to steal Hydra's ship, knowing it was their only way out. Through the commotion of Imperials wanting to impress Hydra, and everyday people complaining, just wanting to get about their day, Clive and Astri snuck onto Hydra's ship. Clive handed Astri one of Hydra's spare robes and explained his plan, saying he'll need to get arrested, then Hydra will take him to the detainment center, then Astri will wait a few minutes, and make her way to the main office and ask them to let her in the cell to get him out. Astri asked about if Hydra brought him aboard the ship and Clive said they'd hold her hostage. Clive left with his transmitter open so Astri could hear everything. Everything went according to plan, and as Clive suspected, Hydra wouldn't want the officers to take credit for the arrest and would want to interrogate him herself. Hydra left orders to not be disturbed and attempted to interrogate Clive to no success. Astri made her way to the control office and convinced an officer to hand her a security device to open the detainment cell door. She made her way the cell and opened a cabinet with the security device and retrieved a stun net launcher. She entered the cell, unlocking it through the security device and held Hydra at gun point, taking Hydra's blaster, before using the security device to free Clive from his stun cuffs. Hydra gave a small, chilling smile, telling them they wouldn't get away with this, but Astri used the stun net launcher to wrap her in the net. Hydra dropped to the floor, unable to move or speak. Astri and Clive left her in the cell, with Clive rigging the door to cell in such a way that no one would be able to use it anytime soon. Astri took Clive back to Hydra's ship, explaining to the officer at the main office before reaching the ship that she was taking Clive to Vader and requested full clearance. They got onto Hydra's ship and took off. Eventually Hydra was no longer the Grand Inquisitor, with the next known Grand Inquisitor being Laddinare Torbin.The Star Wars Sourcebook thumb|left|250px|Dexter Jettster assumed Hydra had similar interests to Malorum without realizing she was carrying out Senator Sauro's interests. Throughout Hydra's early life she became accustomed to being a servant to the point of her feeling that's where she belonged. However, she considered the Empire a better master than her uncle. She was thrilled to serve and be valued by someone as powerful as Vader who was so close to the Emperor. So much that when her work on Alderaan didn't please Palpatine, she felt like was being undervalued and it sickened her, as she had nowhere else to go. This desperation to serve was a burden on Hydra, as she felt that she couldn't fail for the same reason that being undervalued sickened her. Hydra was speculated by Dexter Jettster to have the same interests as Malorum in hunting down Force-sensitives. In actuality she was hunting Force-sensitives for the Imperial Naval Academy for Senator Sauro's project of enlisting Force-adepts into the academy. Clive Flax knew Hydra did not want other officers to take credit for arresting him and Astri, and that she wanted to interrogate him herself. An assumption that proved correct. Hydra preferred not to speak unless she had to and often kept to herself, this meant she never learned how to flatter to gain power. showing no emotion, often looking impassive and speaking in a low monotone, even in the most provoking circumstances that caused most beings to complain. Though she wouldn't often show emotion, she would feel it, such as when she was furious that her interviews with the Alderaanian's got her nowhere. Or when she drew pleasure at Bail Organa's failed attempt to get information to Mon Mothma, referring to him as having "so-called intellect." But she wasn't completely immune to showing emotion, such as when she was disgusted at blossoms landing on her hood at a festival. The look on her face was something Ferus would've found comical if not the seriousness of the situation. Or when she drew a slight satisfaction in her voice from the Aldeeranian's fearing an Imperial takeover. Though when she did show emotion, it was not often to any great extent, with only rare exceptions such as the blossoms. Hydra was to the point, interested in getting straight to the task at hand once she had enough information. However, she could be persuaded to put things off, such as when Ferus requested leaving Coruscant the next day to do additional research before hunting down Force-adepts. thumb|right|250px|Ferus Olin struggled immensely with Hydra's impressive perception. Hydra proved, like Malorum, to highly believe in the Empire and their control, with Ferus almost smiling one time at her smugness due to it. She was well aware of things, making her quite perceptive. This perception proved useful when Ferus Olin incorrectly referred to Alderaan being Bail Organa's grounds when it was instead the Empire's. Hydra's high perception proved to be difficult for Ferus, who was meant to pretend to investigate the toddler on Alderaan and dismiss it. He knew to do that he had to get Hydra off his back. On one occasion Ferus would even get the impression that Hydra was frustrated at his incompetence for only watching the interviews she was going to conduct, or if she was questioning his loyalty, something that was not good for Ferus giving his state of being a double-agent. Adding to her perception, Hydra would research places she would visit on hunts. Hydra had considerable skills as an interrogator. Ferus perceiving her as good at her job. Using her perception, she would make sure to get a good look at everything in an interviewee's home, and ask would incredibly detailed questions. Additionally it was her efficiency that got her the notice of Darth Vader, who used her to report to him about certain activities. Hydra was sure that efficiency would streamline the galaxy. So much so that Hydra would refuse the thought of luck in exchange for efficiency when a mechanic reported Bloomi's criuser. Hydra held little regard for others, as displayed at the festival where she held little regard for the children and barged her way through. This lack of regard worried the parents, who drew closer to their children. Something Hydra loved about being an Inquisitor was the attire, as she loved the feeling of being enveloped inside a robe, and having her face completely shadowed by a hood if worn properly. Darkness to Hydra was not a comfort but a sense of belonging. Ferus could only handle Hydra's company for so long, finding her to be much worse than the crafty and nasty Malorum, making Malorum seem much more pleasant in comparison. Hydra wore the same enveloping dark maroon robes with a hood that concealed her face as the rest of the Inquisitors. She kept a datapad on her person. Additionally, she kept a blaster on her utility belt and made use of a cruiser during her hunt for Astri and Clive. Hydra was first mentioned in the 2007 young readers novel Last of the Jedi: Secret Weapon. She went on to appear in the book released later in the same year called Last of the Jedi: Against the Empire. Hydra has been subject to many contradictions throughout her appearances in the Last of the Jedi and other sources. While Hydra didn't appear in Secret Weapon, Dexter Jettster referred to her with he/him pronoun's. This was further expanded upon in Against the Empire when she made her first appearance, with Ferus being unsure as to whether Hydra was male or female, but presumed she was female. This is supported by the book and all following books which refers to her with she/her pronouns. Dexter's reference to Hydra can be assumed to just be Dexter assuming Hydra's pronouns, or seeing Hydra and assuming she was male. In Against the Empire, Hydra is described as being a short and slender humanoid with pale-silver eyes, a stubble of hair, her gender being difficult to decipher, and wearing dark maroon robes with a hood. The following book, Last of the Jedi: Master of Deception contradicts some of the details about her given in Against the Empire, describing her as having a brown hood, and dark eyes instead. Additionally, the Essential Reader's Companion refers to Hydra as a human female,The Essential Reader's Companion rather than a humanoid with difficult to determine gender as established in Against the Empire. This information of Hydra being human is carried over into article Star Wars Inquisitors: A History.' This article follows Hydra's species as established in the Last of the Jedi books. In Secret Weapon it is established that Hydra is the Grand Inquisitor, with the book alternating between the terms Head Inquisitor and Grand Inquisitor. At the end of Secret Weapon, Palpatine puts Ferus in charge of the Inquisitors but is not officially an Inquisitor himself. This continues into Against the Empire, where Hydra, despite being a Grand Inquisitor, is under Ferus's command. Master of Deception, however, establishes Ferus now being part of the Inquisitorius, and has Hydra refer to herself simply as an Imperial Inquisitor, with her describing Ferus as a Head Inquisitor. At the end of Master of Deception, Ferus is promoted by Emperor Palpatine to Darth Vader's second-in-command and Last of the Jedi: Reckoning reverts back to referring to Hydra as a Head Inquisitor, referencing her promotion prior to Secret Weapon, making no mention of a demotion during Master of Deception, implying she was still the Grand Inquisitor during Master of Deception. Additionally, during her impersonation of Hydra, Astri Oddo refers to herself as Head Inquisitor, reaffirming that Hydra is still Grand Inquisitor.The Last of the Jedi: Reckoning It is unclear as to whether Hydra was demoted between Against the Empire and Master of Deception and then promoted back to the position of Grand Inquisitor after Ferus's promotion, or if she is simply referring to Ferus as Head Inquisitor due to his new found status as an Inquisitor, and being in command of her. Either way, Hydra's position as Head Inquisitor is reestablished in Reckoning. The Last of the Jedi: Underworld features a moment just before Darth Vader's arrival at the Jedi Temple where Malorum is speaking to a personal assistant, telling them he didn't want Vader learn about the intruders until they were captured, the intruders being Ferus Olin and Trever Flume. Whether this assistant was Hydra or not is unconfirmed. However, when Last of the Jedi: Reckoning delves into Hydra's backstory, it speaks of Darth Vader using Hydra to find out what Inquisitors are doing. Making it plausible that if Hydra was the assistant in Underworld, that she reported the intruders to Darth Vader, and that was how Vader could've known of the intruders. *The Last of the Jedi: Secret Weapon *The Last of the Jedi: Against the Empire *The Last of the Jedi: Master of Deception *The Last of the Jedi: Reckoning *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia *Star Wars: The Official Starships & Vehicles Collection 29 *The Essential Reader's Companion Category:Females Category:Grand Inquisitors