144216
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Terris
Terris
4908

Terris was a member of the Eleven, a resistance group based on the planet Bellassa. Around 18 BBY, while Terris and fellow resistance member Naima were piloting V-wing starfighters, they encountered an Imperial starship above Bellassa. The Sith Lord Darth Vader ordered the starship to fire on them, and Terris and Naima were killed. Later, Doctor Amie Antin informed the resistance members Roan Lands and Dona Telamark of their deaths. thumb|right|250px|Ferus Olin (pictured) was a friend of Terris and witnessed their death. Terris was a member of the Eleven, a resistance group based on the planet Bellassa. They were a friend of the resistance member Ferus Olin. Around 18 BBY, Terris and fellow resistance member Naima were piloting V-wing starfighters when they encountered an Imperial starship near Bellassa's inner atmosphere. The ship's captain informed the Sith LordThe Essential Reader's Companion Darth Vader that the starfighters were on their radar and that they were not registered to Bellassa's government, indicating they could be members of the resistance. The captain then told Vader that the starfighters had not identified themselves, and Vader ordered them to blast the fighters. Although the captain protested, saying they were likely just doing surveillance, they eventually complied, destroying one of the fighters. As the second fighter attempted to avoid the Imperial starship, an officer commented on the way it squirmed. The remaining V-wing was destroyed soon after. Olin, who was acting as a double-agent aboard the Imperial starship, felt helpless as he watched the fighters be destroyed and thought it was likely he either knew the pilots or their friends or family. Later, on Bellassa, Doctor Amie Antin told resistance members Roan Lands and Dona Telamark about the deaths of Terris and Naima. Lands was saddened by their deaths and hoped Olin had not known the starfighters were piloted by friends. Ferus Olin believed that Terris was brave to attack an Imperial starship, although he was unaware of their identity. Terris piloted a V-wing starfighter. Terris indirectly appeared in a starfighter in The Last of the Jedi: Secret Weapon, a 2007 junior novel written by Jude Watson as the seventh installment in the Star Wars: The Last of the Jedi series. *The Last of the Jedi: Secret Weapon Category:Individuals of unspecified gender Category:Individuals of unspecified species Category:Individuals with unspecified pronouns Category:Pilots Category:The Eleven members