145491
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Russell_Wake
Russell Wake
3911

Russell Wake was a male individual who worked as a security officer in a company of Bellassa until he became a janitor at the very end of the Clone Wars. During the time of the Clone Wars, a galactic conflict between the Republic and the Confederacy of Independent Systems, Russell always kept himself away from politics from both sides since he never gained his positive desire to fight against the Separatists and took action against the corruption of the Republic. However, when the Republic was reformed into the Galactic Empire, factories and industries were now closed off under the rule of Emperor Palpatine and the Imperial Authority. Russell was enraged of this, but he continued his employment as a caretaker for his former factory and held hope that everything would change in time. A year later, the Bellassan factories were re-opened by the Empire in order to produce parts for the defense industry of the constructed Death Star. Russell worked as a janitor at the time since his former job was transferred by the Empire. Before the opening of the company, Russell met Ferus Olin, a Jedi who eluded Order 66 during the Great Jedi Purge.When Russell realized that Olin had become friendly with, he scorned him, but Ferus told him that he was working as a double agent. Russell was impressed by the courage and offered his friendship to him. After agreeing to help the Jedi, Russell assisted his new friend to sneak into a meeting between Darth Vader and Wilhuff Tarkin who were speaking to a team of scientists that worked for them. Russell was able to shut down the security system in the factory for fifteen minutes and gave time for Ferus, along with Roan Lands, Amie Antin, and Trever Flume to search the Empire's computers for vital data. However, when Darth Vader entered the room, Russell remained calm after he confronted the Sith Lord face-to-face. Seeing that Russell was involved in this conspiracy, Vader began to Force choke Russell and force him to reveal any information on Ferus. Despite the pain, Russell refused answer his question to him and died in honor to protect his friend and family that he cared for. *The Last of the Jedi: Secret Weapon *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Bellassans Category:Business owners and executives Category:Individuals of unspecified species Category:Individuals with he/him pronouns Category:Males Category:Officers