148289
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Zandor
Zandor
3633

Zandor was a barren desert land on the forest moon of Endor that was home to Ogres as well as the sentient rock-like creatures known as Zandor Rockers. Zandor was separated from Ewok lands by the Gorge of Fire, which could only be traversed via the legendary Rainbow Bridge. Zandor was located on Endor, and could not be accessed unless someone was able to cross the Gorge of Fire. According to the Ewoks, the only way to cross it was to use the legendary rainbow crystal, which formed a Rainbow Bridge. Sunnydew flowers were the only known plants in the land. However, the Ogre Gantu stole all of the flowers for the valued nectar the flowers produced, rendering it a rocky waste. thumb|left|A sunnydew flower from Zandor in an Ewok's hands. Zandor was once a thriving land covered in sunnydew flowers, which produced a healing nectar that kept the rest of the region's flora alive. However, the rampaging Ogre Gantu eventually cut down all of the flowers, turning Zandor into a wasteland. He went on to raid across the Rainbow Bridge into Ewok lands, before Chief Chirpa of Bright Tree Village followed him back to Zandor and stole the rainbow crystal. Two other Ewoks, Wicket Wystri Warrick and Teebo, also ventured into Zandor some years later and chased Gantu off, leading to a regrowth of sunnydews that promised to spread across the region. Zandor was home to two known sentient species. Both Ogres and Zandor Rockers lived in Zandor, but, on two occasions, Ewoks visited there for a short night or two. Ewoks were never native to Zandor, however. Ogres were a species of large, pale, near-Human creatures that lived in caves in Zandor. The only known member of the species, Gantu, raided Bright Tree Village, as well as the territory of the Zandor Rockers, with the rainbow crystal. The Zandor Rockers were a species of sentient rocks capable of movement. They were friendly to visitors and often welcomed them, as they did to Wicket Wystri Warrick and Teebo. They were capable of making underground tunnels quickly only using their bodies, as they did to tunnel underneath the Gorge of Fire. Zandor was one of the primary settings of Ewoks 1, written by David Manak, illustrated by Warren Kremer and released in 1985. *Ewoks (1985) 1 Category:Endor locations