149243
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Nightshade_thorn
Nightshade thorn
4396

A nightshade thorn was a poisonous thorny plant that grew on the moon Endor. In 3 ABY, the Ewok Princess Kneesaa a Jari Kintaka stepped on a nightshade thorn and was poisoned. The Ewoks Wicket Wystri Warrick and Teebo used the bridge crystal to cross the Gorge of Fire, a fiery canyon and recover some sunnydew nectar, that was the only medicine that could save her, stealing it from Gantu, an ogre. A nightshade thorn was a poisonous thorny plant found on Endor, a moon in the Outer Rim Territories.Geonosis and the Outer Rim Worlds The nightshade thorn was brown and its thorns wounded those who stepped on them. The only known cure to its poison was the sunnydew nectar. In 3 ABY, dates the events of the Ewoks comic book series, which include the events of Ewoks 1 in which a nightshade thorn appears, to three years after the events of Star Wars: Episode IV A New Hope, which corresponds to 3 ABY, according to The New Essential Chronology. the young Ewok Princess Kneesaa a Jari Kintaka, while walking in a forest with fellow Ewoks Wicket Wystri Warrick and Teebo, stepped on a nightshade thorn and was poisoned. After being brought back to her village, the medicine man Logray tried in vain to heal her. The only way to heal the princess was to use the sunnydew nectar, that was possessed by an ogre named Gantu and guarded beyond the Gorge of Fire, a firey canyon that devide Endor. Warrick and Teebo stole the bridge crystal, a crystal that allowed to create the Rainbow Bridge, and used it to cross the Gorge of Fire. On the other side of the Gorge, they met Zandor Rockers, a sentient species that looked similar to rocks, and they helped the two Ewoks to face Gantu. During the fight, however, the bridge crystal was destroyed and all the remaining sunnydew nectar was poured on to the orge. The two Ewoks returned to the village using a tunnel excavated by the Zandor Rockers, and they realized that some of the necater fell on a flower that Wicket had in his bag. When the princess sniffed the flower, she was immediatly healed. The nightshade thorn appeared in Ewoks 1, the first issue of the Ewoks comic book from Marvel Comics. The story was written by David Manak and illustrated by Warren Kremer. It was first published on January 29, 1985. *Ewoks (1985) 1 Category:Plants of Endor