149532
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/SE-Vigilant_automated_sensor_beacon
SE-Vigilant automated sensor beacon
5008

Fabritech's SE-Vigilant automated sensor beacon was a lightweight sensor beacon used for the electronic surveillance of its surrounding area. The SE-Vigilant was a compact and light two-piece design, consisting of two components; the main post and the upper sensor pole. The low mass of the unit allowed multiple season beacons to be carried by live mounts such as tauntauns, dewbacks, and banthas. The beacon measured one-point-four meters when collapsed, extending to a full height of three meters when deployed. The main post was secured to the ground, either by using a magnetic disk, or driving anchoring rods fifty centimeters into the surface. The post was protected by electrified stun strips that could drive off local wildlife with variable intensity stun shocks. The upper sensor pole was mounted with twin sensor arrays, sensor analysis computer, and broadcast equipment. The sensor packages were mounted on a rotation joint that completed four revolutions per minutes. This allowed the sensor arrays to gather complete data coverage of the surrounding area up to a range of two hundred and fifty meters. The upper sensor array was tasked with generally scanning the surrounding terrain, and included a long-range, wide-angle visual recorder and a motion sensor, along with light and heat sensors. The lower array was tasked with more detailed scans and included a multipurpose visual recorder augmented with magnification, infrared, heat emission adapters, and audio pickups. The sensor arrays fed their data into the sensor analysis computers which automated the functions of the linked sensors. The information was transmitted to a control station, and encryption modules could be added to the beacon to scramble the transmissions. The communications gear had a broadcast range of up to fifty kilometers. The entire season beacon was power by rechargeable power cells which were automatically charged by retractable solar colllectors. During maintenance and calibration operations, the power cells were fully recharged, and the cells could operate continuously for three months. The SE-Vigilant had a modular design, allowing sensor arrays to be swapped out and replaced as needed. Specialized arrays could be installed onto the beacon, including ones dedicated to scanning for geothermal energy, life-forms, communication signals, and radiation. The Alliance to Restore the Republic deployed a number of SE-Vigilant units to keep watch over the frozen wastelands surrounding Echo Base on the planet Hoth. Luke Skywalker and Han Solo were setting up these sensors up just prior to Skywalker's encounter with a Wampa. *The Essential Guide to Weapons and Technology *Arms & Equipment Guide *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Emplacement sensors Category:Fabritech products Category:General purpose sensors Category:Surveillance equipment