150523
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Battle_of_Altyr_V_(Galactic_Civil_War)
Battle of Altyr V (Galactic Civil War)
7095

The Battle of Altyr V was one of the first conflicts between the New Republic and the Dark Empire. It was a part of the Operation Shadow Hand campaign. Altyr V was one of the battlefronts of the struggling New Republic. However, remnants of the Empire decided it was an ideal target to halt the Republic's advent. They had modified two asteroids of the Altyr system as bombardiers and hoped to conquer the planet as a base. New Republic heroes Kyle Katarn and Mara Jade were on-station when the attack came, practicing lightsaber combat. The New Republic commander told the duo that two asteroids were taking up an orbit around the planet and bombarding it while stormtroopers were being landed; more reinforcements would arrive in two hours, sealing the fate of the base. Katarn thought that if a landing craft could be stolen, it could be landed on the asteroid and the asteroids could be destroyed. Mara Jade stayed to coordinate defenses. Katarn moved through the base, assisting Republic soldiers. While wandering in the base, he released a hangared A-wing which fell on the heads of stormtroopers, crushing them. Stormtroopers continued to pour through the base and the Republic commander ordered Kyle to shut the blast doors. However, right before they shut, a TIE/sa bomber blasted them. Nevertheless, Katarn kept going and defeated several stormtroopers and AT-STs and restored power to sections of the base. Eventually he got to the Lambda-class T-4a shuttle and killed the stormtroopers guarding it. Then, he flew to the asteroid base. There he battled through the personnel until he got to the firing center where he had it fire at and destroy the other asteroid. He then set the asteroid to self destruct and left. Following the battle, the New Republic finished evacuating the Altyr V base. Katarn and Jade went their separate ways, as Katarn discovered some hidden references to the hidden temple on Dromund Kaas and wanted to search for it and tasked Jade with helping the New Republic. *Star Wars: Jedi Knight: Mysteries of the Sith *The New Essential Guide to Characters Category:Battles of Altyr V Category:Battles of Operation Shadow Hand Category:Evacuations