150572
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Casti_Tholon
Casti Tholon
11349

|birth= |death= |species=Human |gender=Female |pronouns=She/her |height= |mass= |hair= |feathers= |eyes=Dark |skin=Light |cyber= |families= |parents= |partners= |siblings= |children= |affiliation=*Galactic Outdoor Survival School *Rim Commercial Mining *Mero-Nepp Ores |masters= |apprentices= }} Casti Tholon was a female Human scout. Hailing from the Core Worlds world Sardoran, she was raised by Duros foster parents on a Duro system space city where she only knew Duros and their culture, to the point where she considered herself a Duros and felt more comfortable among them instead of Humans. Tholon enrolled in the Galactic Outdoor Survival School, where she became the favorite student and very close friend of the school's head, Barosa Warren. The pair went on to go on numerous exploration and charting trips, and after graduation, Tholon also became a successful scout on her own, discovering and mapping many previously unknown locations throughout Wild Space and the Unknown Regions, including a valuable mining planet that the Rim Commercial Mining company named after Tholon after her. By 2 ABY, Tholon was employed by Mero-Nepp Ores and was considered a threat by the Rebel Alliance due to her intense loyalty to Warren, who had become an enemy of the Alliance. Casti Tholon was a female Human from Sardoran, a world states that the term "Ordnance/Regional Depot" and the abbreviation "Ord," as used in the name "Ord Sardoran" applied by The Essential Guide to Warfare to Sardoran, applied to certain worlds settled by the Galactic Republic. located in the Core Worlds. &mdash; Based on corresponding data for Sardoran and Duro systems She grew up on a space city of the Duros species located in the Core Worlds' Duro system. There, she was raised by Duros foster parents and grew up among Duros, to the point where she experienced a stronger connection to members of that species than to other Humans. Tholon eventually enrolled in the Galactic Outdoor Survival School, where she became one of the favorite students of the school's head, the Morellian Barosa Warren. Together with Warren, Tholon explored and charted instances of nearly every type of climate, including such Wild Space &mdash; Based on corresponding data for The Clar, Corg, Tholon, and Kur Minor systems locales as the ice-swept plains of the Vivab deserts on the celestial body known as the Clar and the dangerous asteroid fields of the Corg system. thumb|right|300px|Casti Tholon became a close friend of her instructor, Barosa Warren. After graduating from the Galactic Outdoor Survival School, Tholon dedicated her life to exploration. Throughout Wild Space and the Unknown Regions, she discovered and charted many planets and other previously unknown locations. While employed by Rim Commercial Mining, Tholon discovered her first world, a Wild Space planet that was found to have extensive deposits of various ores. The discovery turned out to be highly profitable for the company, establishing it as one of the leading Outer Rim Territories' mining enterprises. Rim Commercial Mining subsequently named the planet Tholon after the scout, and, by 2 ABY,Alliance Intelligence Reports represents a collection of in-universe reports from "one year before the Battle of Hoth," which corresponds to 2 ABY, according to The New Essential Chronology. that world had been her most important find. At some point in her career, Tholon also trekked through the Kur forests of Wild Space's Kur Minor system. During that trip, she suffered severe cuts by the forests' poisonous thorn vines, acquiring numerous scars on her head, arms, and lower legs. By 2 ABY, Tholon was employed by the company Mero-Nepp Ores and had few opportunities to meet Warren. By that year, a Rebel Alliance Task Force on Alliance Security SecuriDex datafile was submitted on Warren and his associates, which included Tholon. The Alliance considered the Morellian a threat due to a personal vendetta he pursued against his former student and Rebel Sisquoc and his Alliance allies, and, in a personal addendum to the datafile, Sisquoc noted that Tholon specifically presented a threat due to her intense loyalty to Warren. Casti Tholon was a light-skinned Human with dark eyes. She kept her head clean-shaven, and numerous black scars were present on her scalp, arms, and lower legs. As a youth, she only knew Duros and their culture, and, by the time she was an adult, she considered herself a Duros, feeling out of place among Humans and being most comfortable when in the company of other Duros. In contrast to the average Duros, however, Tholon was very contentious and overbearing. She had a very forceful personality and, when in a group, easily assumed leadership. Nevertheless, Tholon was affected by the Duros culture. She likely gained from her foster parents a natural curiosity about the galaxy, and, continuing to fulfill her yearnings, over time she became a scout by nature, devoting her life to discovery and to her work. Those qualities led to Tholon having a very close friendship with Barosa Warren, to whom she was extremely loyal. Warren's friendly and adversial relationships both automatically also extended to Tholon, and it was speculated by Rebel Alliance member Sisquoc that, should the Alliance successfully neutralize Warren as a threat, the Human scout would exact fierce vengeance. Casti Tholon possessed legendary scouting abilities and, together with her instructor Barosa Warren, constituted a particularly impressive explorer team. Her physical skills included a good stamina, being able to run long distances and swim, as well as climbing, jumping, and brawling abilities. Tholon was able to ride animals as well as operate both repulsorcraft and starships, and she was also skilled at astrogation, first aid, and computer programming and repair. She was also a perceptive person, being good at bargaining, stealth, and investigation. Tholon's knowledge covered survival in environments such as forests, swamps, and deserts as well as planetary systems and various alien species, cultures&mdash;including that of the Duros&mdash;and languages. Casti Tholon was equipped with a heavy blaster pistol, a hunting blaster, a machete, and a carving knife. She also carried a single-person survival tent, macrobinoculars, twenty-five meters of syntherope, rations, five flares, and a glowrod. At one point, Tholon wore a dark-colored shirt and gloves and carried a backpack. Casti Tholon was introduced in Alliance Intelligence Reports, a 1995 sourcebook for West End Games' Star Wars: The Roleplaying Game. In the book, she was illustrated by Mike Vilardi. *Alliance Intelligence Reports Category:Females Category:Galactic Outdoor Survival School graduates Category:Humans Category:Individuals with she/her pronouns Category:Scouts