150674
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Food_rations
Food rations
3768

}} Food rations or field rations, often simply referred to as rations, were a transportable form of ready-to-eat food used by many military forces around the galaxy and throughout its history. During the New Sith Wars some species that fought in the Battle of Ruusan made use of plastic boxes with hieroglyphic markings; some contained grub-like creatures in brown sauce. The "meal" was kept indefinitely thanks to stasis field or similar technology, and were revived whenever the box was opened, by pressing a panel. Some were buried in the Valley of the Jedi and were still operative a millennium later.Dark Forces: Jedi Knight Clone commandos were equipped with ration packs. These could also be found in survival packages, most notably field kits. During the Imperial Period the Stormtroopers made use of self-heating Stormtrooper rations. Rebel pilots also had a few ration packs inside their starfighters in case they became stranded on a planet. These rations were stored in a blue container with eleven slots, seven on the bottom, three rectangular slots at the top, and a thin slot in the middle, with food including a large, yellow, square-shaped object; a rectangular bar also called a Ration Bar ; several bits of small tan pieces; a large stick; several medium-sized sticks; small rolls; small brown pieces; white pieces; orange pieces; tiny sticks; a small, yellow, square-shaped object; and white rolls. Yoda tried a scrap of food from Luke Skywalker's food ration but spat it out in disgust. They were also well-stocked on cruisers, freighters and lasted long periods of time. There were also designated Empire or Rebellion "field rations." *Star Wars: The Old Republic *Darth Bane: Rule of Two *Republic Commando: Hard Contact *The Clone Wars: Cold Snap *Han Solo at Stars' End *Dark Forces: Jedi Knight *X-Wing: Rogue Squadron *The New Jedi Order: Edge of Victory I: Conquest *The New Jedi Order: Edge of Victory II: Rebirth *The New Jedi Order: Enemy Lines II: Rebel Stand *The New Jedi Order: Force Heretic II: Refugee *Legacy of the Force: Exile *A Guide to the Star Wars Universe *Star Wars Gamemaster Screen, Revised *Star Wars Roleplaying Game Revised Core Rulebook Category:Rations