150641
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Luj_City
Luj City
3957

Luj City was located on the planet Novor 23 of the Outer Rim Territories' Tharin sector. It was an important financial center of the sector and also included the seedy East Side district. The latter was the site of a confrontation that took place around 20 BBY and pitted the assassin Kassar Kosciusko against five members of the Loag order of hired killers. Luj City was the capital settlement of Novor 23, a busy planet with large metropolitan centers that was situated in the Tharin sector of the Outer Rim Territories. Members of the planet's native Ry'coz species cooperated with immigrated alien populations in order to create a bustling economy, and Luj City served as one of the most important financial centers of the sector. The city shared its name with the Tamarin sector's Luj system and contained a seedy district known as East Side. Approximately twenty years before the Battle of Yavin, different parties contracted the Tarro assassin Kassar Kosciusko and five members of the Loag&mdash;an ancient order of assassins originating on the Elrood sector planet MeriseeThe Star Wars Planets Collection&mdash;to eliminate the same target. The two parties of killers had a confrontation in Luj City's East Side from which Kosciusko, albeit heavily scarred, emerged as the sole survivor. The same district was also the site of a brawl between a Gamorrean enforcer and the Kerestian bounty hunter Milacass,Alliance Intelligence Reports which took place at some point by 2 ABYAlliance Intelligence Reports represents a collection of in-universe reports from "one year before the Battle of Hoth," which corresponds to 2 ABY, according to The New Essential Chronology. and in which the latter lost several teeth. Luj City was created by Craig Robert Carey and J. Michael Denbo and was introduced in Cracken's Rebel Operatives, a 1994 West End Games sourcebook published for use with Star Wars: The Roleplaying Game. *Cracken's Rebel Operatives *Alliance Intelligence Reports *Secrets of the Sisar Run Category:Capital cities Category:Novor 23 locations