150864
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Elotis
Elotis
5011

Master Smith Elotis was a Togorian bladesmith who excelled at the craft of that species' scimitar, the sc'rath. Elotis took on an apprentice named Mlatar Thon Gra, recognizing his great skill at fighting the sword and his potential in crafting the weapon. Thon Gra would eventually leave their planet of Togoria and join the vigilante group, the Zulirian Swordmasters. The Alliance to Restore the Republic compiled a report on the Swordmasters, including Thon Gra, which noted his apprenticeship to Elotis. thumb|left|250px|Mlatar Thon Gra, Elotis' apprentice, wielding a sc'rath Togorian Master Smith Elotis was an expert bladesmith skilled in building Togorian sc'rath scimitars. Elotis noticed young hunter Mlatar Thon Gra when he won the top honor of Rrann Hhoss, a series of competitive contests centered on the scimitar and its uses in both hunting and combat. Having observed the skill displayed by Thon Gra, Elotis decided to approach Mlatar and offered him the chance to learn how to craft the blade. Accepting the offer, Elotis taught Thon Gra his craft for a few years, during which Thon Gra took his place beside Elotis. Another five years passed, and during the sixth year, Elotis declared him a master smith. Mlatar Thon Gra would go on to leave their planet, Togoria, and became one of the most skilled bladesmiths to leave the world. As a skilled swordsman, he was invited and joined the Zulirian Swordmasters, a vigilante brotherhood of blade aficionados. The Swordmasters had a report compiled about them, their activities, and members, including Thon Gra, by the Rebel Alliance two years after the destruction of the Death Star, a space station capable of destroying planets. The report, which mentioned Thon Gra's apprenticeship to Elotis, included an addendum by Rebel agent Tynan Ryln Mei. The addendum noted that Thon Gra was the first Togorian to attain the title of master smith in less than ten years in at least three generations. Master Smith Elotis was an incredibly skilled and dedicated craftsman to achieve that title and was a great teacher&mdash;such that their student Thon Gra reached master smith level much faster than other master smiths, including Elotis themself. Elotis also had a keen eye on those with skill at swordplay and an interest in crafting sc'rath, evidenced by their taking on Thon Gra as an apprentice. Elotis was mentioned in Alliance Intelligence Reports, a 1995 sourcebook for West End Games' Star Wars: The Roleplaying Game co-written by Craig Robert Carey, J. P. Pietrzak and Trevor J. Wilson. *Alliance Intelligence Reports Category:Artisans Category:Individuals of unspecified gender Category:Individuals with unspecified pronouns Category:Togorians