150876
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Ocsin
Ocsin
8890

The Ocsin, also known as the Ocsinin, were a near-Human species with white skin and black, pupilless eyes that hailed from the Wild Space celestial body Farana. Believed to be descended from the Human Tionese culture of the Tion Cluster, the Ocsin established first contact with the Galactic Republic at some point before 4500 BBY. The species' members included merchants and explorers, and it established at least several dozen colonies in Farana's galactic neighborhood, including the worlds Ocsin and Saclas. The female Ocsin Cene Gilvent grew up on Saclas, eventually traveling offworld where she became one of the founding members of the Zulirian Swordmasters group of melee weapon afficionados. The Ocsin, also referred to as the Ocsinin, were a sentient near-Human species. Most Ocsin had glaringly white skin and black, pupilless eyes. One member of the species, Cene Gilvent, had long yellow hair and a body build that was large for Ocsin but relatively slender for humanoids in general. The Ocsin identified as belonging to at least one&mdash;female&mdash;gender. Their society was organized into clans, and the species also made use of its own weaponry. The Ocsin hailed from the foggy Wild Space celestial body Farana. They were believed to have originated with the Human Tionese culture, which in turn had come into being from sleeper ship missions that colonized the Outer Rim Territories' Tion Cluster around 27,000 BBY. At some point before 4500 BBY, scouts from the Human-dominated Galactic Republic reached Farana's galactic neighborhood and made first contact with the Ocsin. Farana was never a part of the Republic or its successor, the Galactic Empire.Star Wars: Edge of the Empire Core Rulebook Members of the Ocsin species included cunning merchants and bold explorers. Over time, Ocsin scouts compiled a wealth of navigational data about Wild Space. The species established several dozen colonies Rimward of Farana, the region of space in which their homeworld was situated. They also settled the stormy, gloomy world known as Ocsin and the barren planet Saclas, both in the Outer Rim. &mdash; Based on corresponding data for Ocsin and Saclas systems The minor farming planet Fether, situated near Ocsin, hosted a sizeable Ocsin population as well. thumb|right|300px|The Ocsin hailed from Farana, which was situated to the northeast of what would eventually become the Corporate Sector. A few years before the Battle of Yavin, the Corporate Sector Authority, the Galactic Empire&ndash;affiliated entity administrating Farana's neighboring Corporate Sector, annexed Ocsin, and Saclas eventually also fell within the territory of the sector, near its border with the Wyl sector. Around that time, Ocsin traders could be encountered at Issagra Station in the Corporate Sector's Issagra system and also on Saclas, which they visited while traveling down the Solenbaran Merchant Route hyperlane to reach Imperial-controlled space. In addition, Ocsin spacers warned the curious not to travel to the Mytus system located beyond Farana due to the Corporate Sector Authority maintaining a secret prison facility there. The female Ocsin Cene Gilvent grew up on Saclas, where, during her late teenage years, she earned enough credits harvesting gelatinous pet slimes to buy passage to the Mid Rim. Subsequently, she was hired by the Zuliria Museum of Antiquities on the Mid Rim celestial body Zuliria and eventually became one of the founding members of the Zulirian Swordmasters, a group of melee weapon afficionados who began challenging and attacking various individuals in the galaxy that they believed posed a worthy challenge to their skills. After Gilvent had attacked a Rebel Alliance soldier on the celestial body Fislan of the Outer Rim's Mortex sector, &mdash; Based on corresponding data for Fislan system at some point by 2 ABY,Alliance Intelligence Reports represents a collection of in-universe reports from "one year before the Battle of Hoth," which corresponds to 2 ABY, according to The New Essential Chronology. Major Bren Derlin submitted a Task Force on Alliance Security SecuriDex datafile on the Ocsin swordmaster. The document, however, erroneously listed Gilvent's species as Human. The Ocsin were originally introduced as the Ocsinin in Alliance Intelligence Reports, a 1995 sourcebook for West End Games' Star Wars: The Roleplaying Game. In the book, the Ocsin Cene Gilvent was illustrated by Matt Busch. The 2009 reference book The Essential Atlas by Daniel Wallace and Jason Fry subsequently introduced the name "Ocsin" for the species. *Alliance Intelligence Reports *The Essential Atlas *Star Wars: Edge of the Empire Core Rulebook Category:Human and Near-Human species Category:Wild Space sentient species