150948
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Sunder_9
Sunder 9
3072

Sunder 9 was an armor technology developed by Dr. Nashiak Llalik. An armor-technology lover since childhood, Llalik always wanted to work in a power armor to be used as a multi-environment personal battlesuit. After obtaining a degree at the Chandrillan Academy of Sciences and creating Llalik Designs, Dr. Llalik finally had a chance to work on the design for a year. After this time, however, a new Imperial law forbade most of the power armors and the Sunder 9 design was to be scrapped. At the same time, the Empire hired Llalik to work on the new Zero-G assault stormtrooper armor. Although Llalik would have a chance to include some Sunder 9 concepts on the Zero-G armor, they were not enough to make him forget his own dream. Two unfinished Sunder 9 prototypes were stored on Llalik's home at Plavin 6, watched by a droid security detachment.Alliance Intelligence Reports Dr. Llalik was his own test pilot on Sunder 9 Project, and because he was left-handed, the prototypes included some weapons in the left arm. Sunder 9 prototypes included the following features: *Aquatic propulsion system probably because Llalik was from a humid planet *Armor technology to avoid physical (and, to a lesser extent, energetic) damage, while at the same time improving the user's dexterity. *Blaster cannon on left arm (due to Llalik being left-handed). *Body glove including heating and cooling systems to operate in extreme environments. *Flame projector with a three-meter range, on right arm (It is unclear if the final design would switch arms). *Rocket pack allowing a horizontal 90-meter movement, or a vertical 50-meter. *Sealed enviro-filter to prevent entry of foreign substances; and also to seal the armor in hostile environments. A sealed Sunder 9 includes a four-hour power supply and a six-hour air supply. *Sensors including 270-degree vision, macrobinocular vision, and a specialized sonar and infrared sensor package for dark and aquatic environments. *Strength increaser allowing users to improve the damage in melee conditions; also improved lifting skill. *Alliance Intelligence Reports *Gundark's Fantastic Technology: Personal Gear Category:Llalik Designs products Category:Powersuits