151186
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Bakki_Sourthol
Bakki Sourthol
6542

}} Lieutenant Commander Bakki Sourthol was a Human male pilot and officer for the Alliance to Restore the Republic, flying a X-Wing through the Fakir sector as the Red Leader of Reekeene's Roughnecks. Sourthol sometimes worked along with special operations and intelligence, writing reports on the threats posed by the saboteur Yansan and by the Imperial TIE Series of starfighters. Affable and animated, Sourthol was also good at playing sabacc. Bakki Sourthol, a Human male, joined the Alliance to Restore the Republic because his father's political beliefs prevented him from entering the Imperial Academy. An experienced pilot, Sourthol commanded an X-Wing Squadron in the Bakchou arm of Fakir sector as a member of Reekeene's Roughnecks. His callsign was Red Leader. He also became a Lieutenant Commander working for Special Operations. During his service in the Alliance, Sourthol identified Yansan, a Ho'Din saboteur, trying to disable Rebel transports with several Rebels on board, including Sourthol himself. Yansan was stopped before he could finish the task, but he managed to escape. During this event, Sourthol noticed that Yansan had a limp, preferring the left leg. On 2 ABY, due to some events in the Tharin sector, Sourthol obtained important information about other threats to the Rebel Alliance. Due to this, he was temporarily relieved from his duties on Fakir so he could report to the Alliance High Command. Sourthol wrote about Yansan and other threats. During this time, he also worked along with Lieutenants Anson Blazer, Deeve and Tura Raftican, and Special Agent Tay Vanis. Later, Commander Bakki Sourthol of the Red Squadron wrote a brief report on the TIE Series of starfighters used by the Galactic Empire. Although it was an Intelligence Report, it was not restricted to Intel agents. Sourthol recognized that his report was uncomprehensive, and suggested another, more extensive report by Wedge Antilles to complete the research. Sourthol was a friendly, cheerful and fearless man and a mean Sabacc player. He was also an excellent pilot, an observant Intelligence officer and an expert in military technology. He was familiar with the tactics and history of TIE technology. While writing a report on them, he used ancient military proverbs as epigraph to some sections. Sourthol first appeared in Star Wars Campaign Pack, a supplement for the Star Wars: The Roleplaying Game, first published in the 1988 and then reprinted along with other material in Classic Campaigns in 1994. He was then mentioned in further role-playing supplements, including Alliance Intelligence Reports (1995). In Star Wars Campaign Pack, his hair is described as "fair" but a graphic depiction of Sourthol by artist Mike Vilardi in Alliance Intelligence Reports shows him with apparent dark hair. Alliance Intelligence Report: TIE Fighters (published in 1996 in Star Wars Adventure Journal #10) presented as a report written by Sourthol, apparently is a document written in times of the Rebel Alliance. However, Sourthol says that Wedge Antilles' report is available through the Ministry of Education, suggesting that at this point Sourthol's party held control over official institutions, and thus that the report was written in times of the New Republic. *Star Wars Campaign Pack *Alliance Intelligence Reports *Classic Campaigns Category:Alliance Fleet officers Category:Humans Category:Males Category:Reekeene's Roughnecks personnel Category:Task Force on Alliance Security personnel