151657
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Beneficent_Tasia
Beneficent Tasia
5117

Beneficent Tasia was a colony ship that departed the planet Grizmallt in approximately 3900 BBY in an expedition to seek fortune and glory. Beneficent Tasia was accompanied by its support ships, Constant and Mother Vima. The ships were filled with Human Grizmallti refugees fleeing a civil war on Grizmallt,Nexus of Power and they were sponsored by Grizmallt's Queen Elsinoré den Tasia and blessed by a famous Jedi Master. The expedition, led by the explorer Kwilaan,Secrets of Naboo targeted the dangerous southern quadrant of the galaxy, and shortly after the depature, Grizmallt lost contact with the Beneficient Tasia and assumed the expedition had failed. Although the ships were severely damaged and unable to return contact, the expedition arrived on the planet Naboo, although one of the ships crashed." Some scholars claimed that a contingent of the colonists landed on Naboo's moon Rori first.Star Wars Galaxies: An Empire Divided Quick Reference Guide The passengers of the ships, which included a member of House Korden,Galaxy of Intrigue colonized the world, becoming known as the Naboo and developing a thriving society after clashing with the native Gungans. In 20 BBY, a holographic representation of the crashed starship appeared as part of that year's annual Festival of Light, which commemorated the 847th anniverary of Naboo joining the Galactic Republic. The Beneficient Tasia was mentioned in a Galactic Alliance historical document published by the Historical Council in 36 ABY. The Beneficient Tasia was first mentioned in the Royal Naboo DataBank entry in the 2001 LucasArts video game Star Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds. The StarWars.com episode guide for "Crisis on Naboo," the eighteenth episode of the fourth season of Star Wars: The Clone Wars, which aired on February 10, 2012,Star Wars: The Clone Wars: Episode Guide stated that a Grizmallt colony ship crashed on Naboo; however, it was not specified which vessel crashed. *Star Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds *Star Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds: Clone Campaigns *The New Essential Chronology *Knights of the Old Republic Campaign Guide *The Essential Atlas *Nexus of Power Category:Colony ships