152353
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Ilay
Ilay
4137

Ilay was a clan leader of the Airam. Unlike most of her rival clan leaders, Ilay believed that joining the Alliance to Restore the Republic was a serious mistake, and instead remain with the Galactic Empire. She eventually met with Admiral Senn's forces in her CR90 corvette Magua in the Aiqin 4 system despite being pursued by rebel forces, which were driven off by Imperial forces. Admiral Senn promised her that she would be governor of the entire Airam sector, should the Alliance be driven out. In return, she leaked information about a planned exchange of rebel weapons for Airam bacta near Elbra. This subsequently led to the capture of the rebel Medium Transport Hoopaju (carrying weapons) and the Airam Modular conveyor Pobel by forces from ISD Rage while the escorting Airam Muurian transport Lod was destroyed. She also revealed the location of an upcoming rebel/Airam resupply operation in the Kuras Drift and even went so far to send her own forces to assist the Empire in an (albeit unsuccessful) strike mission against that resupply operation. After the battle in the Kuras Drift, Ilay came for another meeting to keep her settlement with the Empire. This time she traveled to Aiqin 4 aboard the Dreadnaught-class heavy cruiser Kala'din. The Rebels had learned of this meeting, however, and managed to kidnap her in a surprise attack. Through interrogation it was then revealed that she had sold conscripts and warheads to the Empire. The Rebels stopped the attempt to resupply the Imperials. The Airam conscripts later confirmed that they were to undergo basic flight training aboard the Star Dreadnaught and then sent on suicide missions against the Alliance forces in the sector. The large supply of warheads provided by Ilay would have proven lethal to the rebels in such missions. The Battle of Nocto that concluded the Imperial campaign against the Alliance and the Airam rebels soon afterward. *Star Wars: X-Wing vs. TIE Fighter: Balance of Power Campaigns Category:Airams Category:Bureaucrats of the Galactic Empire Category:Females Category:Individuals of unspecified species