153810
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Nim_Zanti
Nim Zanti
4125

Nim Zanti was an Ororo Transportation lieutenant assigned to Vergesso Base in the Vergesso III asteroid belt during the Galactic Civil War. As the chief Ororo representative, she was the ruler of the Base.Shadows of the Empire Planets Guide During the Galactic Civil War, Zanti joined Ororo for which she ran smuggling operations that turned highly profitable. After years of success, she was rewarded with an assignment to the Vergesso Base. Often advised by Weggit Arpor, she managed to increase the base's profitability, as well as the staff's loyalty. Ruthlessly efficient, but also notable for using her motherhood instincts over her operations, the base's profitability increased by 10%. Zanti was a practical, ruthless woman with few moral inhibitions; her good treatment towards her underlings and associates sourced from her will to make them efficient. As a result, staff turnover was decreased by 20%. On the other hand, less competent employees were demoted or fired (or promptly executed). Although not particularly sympathetic to the Rebel Alliance, she followed Ororo's policies, and favored them for their contributions to resources. In the aftermath of the battle of the Bajic Shipyards, Zanti and Vam Margan happened to be at the Base Operations Center and survived the disaster in the fortified bunker. Gathering the survivors, they led them through the turbolift maintenance ladders to the upper levels. Reaching the Life, they were under attack by a squad of confused, space-suited mercenaries. Before reaching the Facility, they encountered a squad of spacetroopers. Making their way to the asteroid surface, they found a platoon of spacetroopers; they managed to steal and hijack their assault shuttle, guarded by bored and unexpecting crewmen. As the shuttle was heading to open space, the Imperials realized that something was wrong and sent TIEs to destroy it. The scenario Will the Last Person Leaving Vergesso Turn Off the Lights? allows the option to have Vim Zanti and/or Vam Margan among the suvivors of the Battle, that might lead the team of survivors. This article assumes that Zanti had this role. *Shadows of the Empire Planets Guide *Pirates & Privateers Category:Criminals Category:Females Category:Humans