154696
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Gu-vandi
Gu-vandi
6128

The Gu-vandi were a sentient species. They were governed by the Gu-vandi Collective, and their area of space included the world Praven Prime, home to the L'Xing species. At some point by 3951 BBY, an HK-50 series assassin droid posing as a translator intentionally mistranslated a L'Xing language phrase, causing a civil war between the Gu-vandi Collective and the L'Xing. As a result of the conflict, the Galactic Republic withdrew its presence from Gu-vandi space. The Gu-vandi were a sentient species of which members were governed by the Gu-vandi Collective. According to the HK-series assassin droid HK-47, the Gu-vandi had a "torpid" disposition that led them to favor words over actions. thumb|left|300px|The Gu-vandi Collective included Praven Prime. By some point between 3955 BBY and 3951 BBY,The Essential Atlas dates the events of Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic II: The Sith Lords, which establishes that the civil war between the Gu-vandi Collective and the L'Xing broke out no more than four years prior, to 3951 BBY. the Gu-vandi controlled an area of space that included the world Praven Prime of the Outer Rim Territories' Quelii sector &mdash; Based on corresponding data for Praven Prime system&mdash;the homeworld of the sentient L'Xing species and a part of the Galactic Republic. At one point, an HK-50 series assassin droid&mdash;a unit of an assassin droid model that had originally been designed by the Human Sith Lord Darth Revan and was later mass-produced by the rogue G0-T0 infrastructure planning system known as G0-T0Knights of the Old Republic Campaign Guide&mdash;posing as a translator droid intentionally mistranslated the word for "friendship" in the L'Xing language to instead convey the implication that a specific individual's brood mate had been impregnated by their own host. The translated comment sparked a civil war between the L'Xing and the Gu-vandi Collective. As a result of the civil war, the Republic decided to withdraw control over Praven Prime and retreated from Gu'vandi space. thumb|right|180px|HK-47 (pictured) claimed the civil war had a positive impact on the Gu-vandi. In 3951 BBY, while the civil war was still ongoing, HK-47, who had originally served as the basis for the HK-50 model, informed the Human Jedi Knight known as the Jedi Exile about the conflict involving the Gu-vandi. The droid reasoned that the outbreak of the conflict and the withdrawal of the Republic would eventually prove to be beneficial to that government, speculating that continued control over the world would have been an unnecessary burden in the form of resources needed to maintain diplomatic and trade relations. HK-47 further claimed that the Gu-vandi had "needed a good war" and that the conflict had "woken" the species from its relatively inactive disposition. The Gu-vandi were introduced in the 2004 Obsidian Entertainment video game Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic II: The Sith Lords. In the game, the species can be mentioned in an optional conversation the player character, the Jedi Exile, can have with the character HK-47. This article assumes one hundred percent game completion and that the conversation took place as described. *Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic II: The Sith Lords Category:Sentient species