155785
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Berra_Sane
Berra Sane
2912

|masters= |apprentices= }} Berra Sane was a female Human native to the Core Worlds planet Rhinnal. She had been a lifelong resident of Austogie, a southern Rhinnal village falling within the region controlled by the Kieger clan. Trained as a geologist, she was eventually retained by the Kieger clan leader to scout out remote territories for future land grabs. Unscrupulous and money-hungry, Sane would betray her sister if it brought her credits. So far, her skill at subterfuge has prevented others from divining her true nature. She had excellent arctic survival skills and could handle a variety of blaster and vibro weapons. She also wore a red and yellow patterned Kieger clan sash. Berra Sane was first introduced in Coruscant and the Core Worlds, a sourcebook for the Star Wars Roleplaying Game, published by Wizards of the Coast on January 3, 2003. The sourcebook offered players several adventure hooks for their home campaigns. One such scenario, titled «Frozen in Time», involved the character Berra Sane. According to the scenario, sensor readings taken by the geologist Berra Sane suggest that something has been discovered beneath the thick ice near Rhinnal’s south pole. Her instruments detected what appeared to be a starship buried hundreds of meters below the frigid surface, trapped in the glacial mass. Some believe the vessel is a pre-Republic Dellaltian warship, estimated to be over twenty-five thousand years old. A V-Fin submersible icebreaker could quickly cut through the ship’s frozen tomb, but tenticulons and fireheads are only two of the many dangers heroes may face as they navigate toward the base of the iceberg. Rival groups are also eager to claim the prize for themselves, and drilling through the ice without damaging the ancient vessel will be a delicate and risky task. Berra Sane – who may accompany the characters as a guide—has her own agenda. She is determined to take sole credit for the discovery and will betray anyone who stands in her way to achieve her selfish goals. *Coruscant and the Core Worlds Category:Females Category:Humans Category:Rhinnalians Category:Scientists Category:Scouts