158471
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Galactic_Alliance_Department_of_Justice
Galactic Alliance Department of Justice
5493

The Galactic Alliance Department of Justice, also referred to as the Ministry of Justice, was a branch of the Galactic Federation of Free Alliances. It was formed as a organization of the Galactic Alliance to replace its predecessor, the New Republic Ministry of Justice. The Justice Department was in charge of prosecuting cases and enforcing law and order. It also operated the Alliance Marshals who conducted investigations for the Department and performed other tasks as needed including escorting prisoners to and from court. The Galactic Alliance Department of Justice was formed in 28 ABY from its New Republic predecessor. After the Solo-Niathal coup, the Justice Department handled the government's prosecution of the deposed Chief of State Cal Omas. However, Omas and his attorneys complained due to the fact that the Department did not charge him with anything until an extended period following his arrest.The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia The matter never went to trial as Omas later killed himself.Legacy of the Force: Inferno In the aftermath of the Second Galactic Civil War, Jedi Grand Master Luke Skywalker was charged with dereliction of duty for allowing Jacen Solo to fall to the dark side of the Force and take over the Alliance. The trial ended in a 10 year exile for Skywalker unless he could find the reason Jacen fell to the dark side.Fate of the Jedi: Outcast As the relationship between Chief of State Natasi Daala and the Jedi Order deteroriated, the Chief of State and was able to have Jedi shadowded. The Alliance Marshals were assigned as Jedi supervisors to make sure that Jedi Knights obeyed Galactic Alliance law. The Justice Department pursued a criminal case against former Jedi, Sith, and Galactic Alliance Guard Lieutenant Tahiri Veila for the murder of Grand Admiral Gilad Pellaeon.Fate of the Jedi: Abyss Later, the Justice Department ordered Trinnolt Makken to investigate the death of Acting Grand Master Kenth Hamner. Hamner had been killed in a lightsaber duel by fellow Jedi Master Saba Sebatyne. However, the Justice Department was unsure if a death during a lightsaber duel could be considered a crime to charge Master Sebatyne with.Fate of the Jedi: Conviction *The New Jedi Order: Destiny's Way *The New Jedi Order: The Unifying Force *Dark Nest I: The Joiner King *Dark Nest II: The Unseen Queen *Dark Nest III: The Swarm War *Legacy of the Force: Sacrifice *Legacy of the Force: Revelation *Fate of the Jedi: Outcast *Fate of the Jedi: Abyss *Fate of the Jedi: Backlash *Fate of the Jedi: Allies *Fate of the Jedi: Vortex *Fate of the Jedi: Conviction *Crucible *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Galactic Alliance law enforcement