158499
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Volice_worm
Volice worm
4751

The volice worm, also known simply as the volice, was a type of unusual massive worm that at one point lived on the volcanically active, jungle-coveredThe Truce at Bakura Sourcebook Unknown Regions world Lwhekk. It ingested rocks containing crystalline substances that could be used as focusing elements in the lightsaber weapons used by the Jedi tradition of Force-sensitives. Consequently, once every eleven years the volice worm excretedStar Wars: Knights of the Old Republic a unique crystallized and translucent substance known as sapith. At some point long before 3956 BBYThe Essential Atlas dates the events of Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic to 3956 BBY. and many millennia before the Battle of Yavin, the volice worm went extinct, with certain specimens eventually becoming fossilized. Over time, individuals would excavate such volice worm remains in order to obtain the increasingly rare sapith crystals, which were used by ancient Jedi Knights as lightsaber focusing crystals and were available in the galaxy by 3956 BBY. thumb|right|250px|The volice worm was introduced in Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic. The volice worm was first mentioned in the 2003 BioWare video game Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic. The game, as well as its 2004 Obsidian Entertainment sequel, Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic II: The Sith Lords'Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic II: The Sith Lords and its accompanying Prima Games game guide, capitalized the creature's name as "Volice worm."Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic II: The Sith Lords: Prima Official Game Guide However, later sources have instead used a lowercase form of the name, which this article assumes takes precedence. In addition, 2008's The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia introduced a shortened version of the volice worm's name, and one entry in the book also erroneously claims that the worm excreted the sapith crystals once every ten years instead of once every eleven years. *Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic *Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic II: The Sith Lords *Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic II: The Sith Lords: Prima Official Game Guide *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia *Star Wars: Force and Destiny Core Rulebook Category:Creatures of Lwhekk Category:Creatures of unspecified diet Category:Extinct creatures Category:Non-sentient species Category:Worms