158776
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Manon_Flint
Manon Flint
3911

Governor Manon Flint was the Imperial official in charge of the Oon Tien system in the Kathol sector of the Outer Rim Territories. In 8 ABY, warlord Moff Kentor Sarne was forced to retreat from his capital on Kal'Shebbol by New Republic forces. As the Moff retreated, he ordered Flint to hold Oon Tien's extensive spacedock facilities at all costs or scuttle them in the likelihood that they would be captured by the New Republic. Manon Flint served the Galactic Empire and, later, the warlord empire of Moff Kentor Sarne. At some point, Flint was appointed as governor of the planet Oon Tien and its surrounding system, which was within the Kathol sector of the Outer Rim Territories. The world served as a construction and maintenance hub for Moff Sarne's forces&mdash;boasting three large spacedocks&mdash;and was heavily defended by IPV-1 System Patrol Craft, TIE/LN starfighters and proton mines. In 8 ABY,The DarkStryder Campaign dates itself to four years after the Battle of Endor, which equates to 8 ABY per The New Essential Chronology. after Moff Sarne was forcibly removed from power on his capital, Kal'Shebbol, by New Republic forces, he retreated into the depths of the Kathol sector. As he withdrew, Sarne ordered Governor Flint to hold Oon Tien's stardocks at all costs, or to scuttle them to stop them from falling into New Republic hands if they chose to invade the system. Governor Flint was a competent administrator, capable of overseeing the daily running of a planetary system, as well as the extensive orbital facilities surrounding the planet. Flint was trusted by Sarne to remain at the duty post assigned to the governor, and to follow orders. Manon Flint was mentioned in The DarkStryder Campaign, an RPG sourcebook published by West End Games in 1995, as background information regarding the disposition of Imperial forces in the Kathol sector. *The DarkStryder Campaign *The DarkStryder Campaign, Deluxe Category:Governors of the Galactic Empire Category:Individuals of unspecified gender Category:Individuals of unspecified species Category:Individuals with unspecified pronouns Category:Personnel of Moff Sarne's forces