158774
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Pertaal_Logris
Pertaal Logris
4308

Admiral Pertaal Logris served the Imperial Navy during the Galactic Civil War. By 8 ABY, Logris was serving in the forces of Moff Kentor Sarne, an Imperial warlord who ruled the Kathol sector in the Outer Rim Territories. Under Sarne, Logris was in command of the Charis Fleet&mdash;the largest military fleet formation assigned to the sector&mdash;and was one of Sarne's staunchest supporters. Pertaal Logris was an officer serving in the Imperial Navy who rose to the rank of admiral. By 8 ABY,The events of The DarkStryder Campaign take place four years after the Battle of Endor, which equates to 8 ABY per The New Essential Chronology. Logris was serving in Moff Kentor Sarne's forces in the Kathol sector of the Outer Rim Territories. Sarne had established himself as a warlord following the death of Emperor Palpatine at the Battle of Endor, and the subsequent fracturing of Imperial authority, by quietly withdrawing his sector from the Empire. Under Sarne, Logris commanded the Charis Fleet, the largest military formation in the sector, consisting of several capital ships and smaller vessels based on the planet Charis. In 8 ABY, Sarne was ousted from his capital, Kal'Shebbol, by New Republic forces as part of their military offensive against him. As the Moff fled into the depths of the Kathol sector, Sarne ordered the Charis Fleet to be broken down into smaller task forces to undertake missions to undermine the New Republic's efforts to expand their sphere of influence in the region through both diplomatic and military missions. Admiral Logris was a competent military commander, capable of effectively managing a large fleet of ships of varying class. The Admiral also firmly believed in Moff Sarne's goals and ideals to resurrect the Empire, and was one of his staunchest supporters. Pertaal Logris was mentioned in The DarkStryder Campaign, an RPG sourcebook published by West End Games in 1995, as background information regarding the disposition of Imperial forces in the Kathol sector. *The DarkStryder Campaign *The DarkStryder Campaign, Deluxe Category:Imperial Navy admirals of the Galactic Empire Category:Individuals of unspecified gender Category:Individuals of unspecified species Category:Individuals with unspecified pronouns Category:Personnel of Moff Sarne's forces