158772
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Charis_Fleet
Charis Fleet
4864

The Charis Fleet was the largest Imperial naval formation stationed in the Kathol sector of the Outer Rim Territories. By 8 ABY, the Charis Fleet was part of the forces commanded by the Imperial warlord Moff Kentor Sarne. During this time, the fleet was stationed at the planet Charis and was under the command of Admiral Pertaal Logris. The Charis Fleet was the main Imperial fleet formation operating in the Kathol sector of the Outer Rim Territories. By 8 ABY,The events of The DarkStryder Campaign take place four years after the Battle of Endor, which equates to 8 ABY per The New Essential Chronology. the Charis Fleet was part of the military forces serving Moff Kentor Sarne, ruler of the Kathol sector. Following the death of Emperor Palpatine during the Battle of Endor in 4 ABY, Sarne had quietly withdrawn the Kathol sector from Imperial authority&mdash;a move that had been made easy by the fracturing of the Imperial command structure and subsequent in-fighting between various factions&mdash;and had declared himself a warlord. During this time, the fleet was commanded by Admiral Pertaal Logris and was stationed at the planet Charis. When Moff Sarne was ousted from his capital, Kal'Shebbol, by the New Republic as part of their military campaign against him, he subsequently fled into the depths of the Kathol sector. The Moff ordered that the Charis Fleet was to be split up into smaller formations so that it could handle multiple missions aimed at harassing the New Republic's attempts to establish diplomatic and military alliances in the region as they attempted to expand their sphere of influence. The Charis Fleet was comprised of two Kuat Drive Yards Lancer-class frigates, two Loronar Corporation Strike-class medium cruisers, four Corellian Engineering Corporation CR90 corvettes, two Kuat Drive Yards Ton-Falk-class escort carriers, and multiple Sienar Fleet Systems GAT-12 Skipray Blastboats and system patrol craft. The Fleet was commanded by Admiral Pertaal Logris, a staunch supporter of Moff Sarne and his regime. The Charis Fleet was mentioned in The DarkStryder Campaign, an RPG sourcebook published by West End Games in 1995 as background information regarding the disposition of Imperial forces in the sector. *The DarkStryder Campaign *The DarkStryder Campaign, Deluxe Category:Imperial Navy fleets Category:Moff Sarne's fleets