159770
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Listings_of_the_Fourth_Pestoriv_Conference
Listings of the Fourth Pestoriv Conference
5593

Listings of the Fourth Pestoriv Conference was a datacard documenting the Fourth Pestoriv Conference. Galactic Emperor Palpatine kept the datacard in the Mount Tantiss storehouse prior to its destruction in 9 ABY. The treasure hunter Lak Jit recovered it in 19 ABY, but was forced to surrender the datacard to New Republic High Councilor Leia Organa Solo. Listings of the Fourth Pestoriv Conference was a datacard documenting the fourth of the Pestoriv Conferences held at some point during the reign of Galactic Emperor Palpatine before his death in 4 ABY.Specter of the Past establishes the Fourth Pestoriv Conference occurred during Palpatine's reign, thus it must have taken place before his death, dated to 4 ABY by The New Essential Chronology. The datacard had a label with its title. thumb|right|150px|Lak Jit gave the datacard to Leia Organa Solo (pictured). Listings of the Fourth Pestoriv Conference was kept by Palpatine in his Mount Tantiss storehouse on the planet Wayland until its destruction in 9 ABY.The Essential Reader's Companion dates the events of The Last Command&mdash;including the destruction of Mount Tantiss&mdash;to 9 ABY. In 19 ABY,The Essential Reader's Companion dates the events of Specter of the Past to 19 ABY. by which time the datacard had become filthy and stained with dirt, the treasure hunter Lak Jit recovered six datacards&mdash;including Listings of the Fourth Pestoriv Conference&mdash;when digging through soil near Mount Tantiss. Jit was discovered by a Noghri cleansing team and invoked the Debble Agreement when the team attempted to confiscate the datacards, arguing that they were historical and, as such, he should be allowed to keep them. New Republic High Councilor Leia Organa Solo was brought in by the Noghri Cakhmaim to determine ownership of the datacards. Organa decided that the datacards should be inspected first and offered Jit 500 credits up front for them, and then that the New Republic would pay the rest of their worth after they were examined. While Jit was unsatisfied with her decision, he eventually surrendered the datacards. Listings of the Fourth Pestoriv Conference was the first datacard Organa examined and, while assessing the datacard, she mentally noted it was not particularly important due to already complete documentation of the Pestoriv Conferences. However, she admitted that it may be of use in the event that Palpatine possessed a secret version of the Conference's events and therefore the contents of the datacard should be investigated once it had been cleaned. Listings of the Fourth Pestoriv Conference appeared in the novel Specter of the Past, written by Timothy Zahn and published in 1997 as part one of the Star Wars: The Hand of Thrawn Duology. *Specter of the Past *Specter of the Past abridged audiobook Category:Datacards