160802
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Westa_Impeveri
Westa Impeveri
4690

Westa Impeveri was a Human male who was an elected senior counselor of the Hedrett Town Council during the waning years of the Galactic Republic.Living Force Campaign Guide Westa Impeveri grew up in the Outer Rim. He was a small-time criminal who served as a spokesperson and intermediary for various minor crime lords. His employers kept changing due to power struggles and assassinations, or sometimes his services were bet away in sabacc games. Trying to escape that life, Impeveri stowed away on a ship heading for Corellia, but he was discovered and tossed off in Hedrett. Making the best of the situation, Westa Impeveri got involved in the local politics in 33 BBY. His knack for gathering secrets served him well in his new career. Sometime during this period, Impeveri fathered a daughter. Eventually, after serving a time as a junior counselor, he used the power of those secrets to oust a popular senior counselor and get elected senior counselor himself. His opponent in the election, Karid Blakken, accused Impeveri of rigging the ballot box. The votes were recounted, but Impeveri was found innocent of that charge. Westa had a very open and trustworthy air about him, which made it easy for people to confide in him. He was only a competent senior counselor, but his apparent openness made him a lot of friends on the council. In around 20 BBY,The Living Force Campaign Guide states that the Living Force campaign is set one year after the Invasion of Naboo, an event that is dated to 32 BBY by The New Essential Chronology. As the Living Force adventure Philology moved the campaign forward ten years to the time of the Clone Wars, and the adventure Night's Homecoming established that by Year 4 of the campaign over a year had elapsed since the events of Philology, A Mon Alone can therefore be dated to circa 20 BBY. Counselor Impeveri traveled to the Almas Academy, to take part in a private ceremony of gratitude towards the heroes who defeated slaver Phylus Mon. In the 2008 reference book The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia, Impeveri's slicer handle from the Living Force article Destabilization, "IMPEVERI," was misspelled "IMPEREVI." *Living Force Campaign Guide *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Criminals Category:Cularin residents Category:Humans Category:Legislators and councilors Category:Males Category:Slicers