161740
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Mud_Sloth
Mud Sloth
5050

The Mud Sloth was a Verpine Adventurer starship of the Model 201, Production Group E subtype, with the individual registation number NR80-109399,Shield of Lies owned by Akanah Norand Goss Pell. It was used during the Black Fleet Crisis to locate the Fallanassi Circle and Luke Skywalker's mother. The design of the ship predated the rise of the Empire. According to New Republic records, the first owner of the ship had been Andras Pell, an inhabitant of Carratos born around 50 BBY, passing around 15 ABY to his younger widow Akanah.In Before the Storm, Akanah indicates that she was around thirty-one years old in 16 ABY ("That was nineteen years ago. I was twelve"), and she states in Shield of Lies that Andras was "a man thirty-six years my senior", implying that he was born approximately sixty-seven years before 16 ABY; however, much of her narrative is unverified, and in Tyrant's Test she states that she was "ten years old when the Emperor's stormtroopers swept across half the galaxy", which may mean that her true age is nearer forty-five. However, Akanah was not in possession of the key to the maintenance hatch in the deck of the internal cabin. and a significant effort had been made to conceal the ship's identity, notably the fitting of an expensive "smuggler's kit" which upoloaded a new counterfeit registry every time the ship jumped to hyperspace, which Akanah claimed had been installed for her on Golkus by an outlaw tech she knew there. Around half a year after coming into possession of the ship, Akanah found Luke on Coruscant and then took him on a journey searching for the remaining Fallanassi and among them his supposed mother. The ship had no formal name, but was christened the Mud Sloth by Luke due to its speed—or lack of.Before the Storm The two piloted the ship to planets Lucazec, Teyr, and Atzerri. Eventually, the two discovered the Fallanassi were hidden on J't'p'tan, and after a detour via Utharis, they made their way to the planet.. Along with the Fallanassi leader Wialu they took the ship to rendezvous with the New Republic Fifth Fleet, arriving aboard the command ship Intrepid shortly before the Battle of N'zoth. After the end of the Black Fleet Crisis, the two parted ways, with Akanah departing with the Fallanassi, and Luke taking the Mud Sloth to find the Lady Luck and rescue Lano Calrissian.Tyrant's Test Most of the ship's systems remained unmodified, including a sublight speed rating of 2.5 and a hyperdrive motivator of Block 1 standard, but the navigational deflector array had been upgraded to Block 3 standard. The ship's interior contained a relatively spacious flight deck with two crew couches, and a single-width sleeper and a small refresher unit, both screened from the main interior space by curtains. The meal-service console was malfunctioning - although it offered three drink selections, it would not dispense food, forcing Akanah to make use of ration packs stored in the cargo hold. *Before the Storm *Before the Storm abridged audiobook *Shield of Lies *Shield of Lies abridged audiobook *Tyrant's Test *Tyrant's Test abridged audiobook *The Essential Guide to Planets and Moons *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Adventurers