162000
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Nadin_Paal
Nadin Paal
4723

Nadin Paal was a male Gran lieutenant who served in Nirama's organization based out of the Cularin system during the final decades of the Galactic Republic. A Gran, Nadin Paal was a member of the crime lord Nirama's criminal organization, ascending to the rank of lieutenant during his service. Paal was appointed as Nirama's "trade envoy" to the Cularin government, ensuring that the organization remained safe from sanctions and judicial review. Aside from his work as spokesperson Paal earned credits as a smuggler, piloting his modified YT-1300 called the Whirling Stars. While under Nirama's employ, Lieutenant Paal earned the ire of Riboga the Hutt, who placed a large bounty on his head with the condition that it could only be claimed if Paal left the system. The Bounty Hunters' Guild always had somebody watching Paal's movements and thus, even with the Gran knowing that problems were approaching as of 32 BBY, he remained in Cularin. The bounty would trap the Gran insystem despite the fact that he wanted to earn a respectable living else where.Living Force Campaign Guide Circa 20 BBY,The Living Force Campaign Guide states that the Living Force campaign is set one year after the Invasion of Naboo, an event that is dated to 32 BBY by The New Essential Chronology. As the Living Force adventure Philology moved the campaign forward ten years to the time of the Clone Wars, and the adventure Night's Homecoming established that by Year 4 of the campaign over a year had elapsed since the events of Philology, A Mon Alone can therefore be dated to circa 20 BBY. Nadin Paal, second-in-command to Nirama since Len Markus's mysterious disappearance, traveled to the Jedi Order's Almas Academy, to take part in a private ceremony of gratitude towards the heroes who defeated the notorious slaver Phylus Mon. Nadin Paal usually came off as a nervous individual, and always seemed to be looking over his shoulder. He did not want anybody to find out about his thoughts of going straight, and would get defensive when his motives were called into question. *Living Force Campaign Guide *Ultimate Alien Anthology *The Force Unleashed Campaign Guide *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Cularin asteroid belt residents Category:Diplomats Category:Gran Category:Males Category:Smugglers