162442
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Children_of_the_Open_Hand
Children of the Open Hand
5587

The Children of the Open Hand, also known as the Children of the Path,Star Wars Encyclopedia: The Comprehensive Guide to the Star Wars Galaxy or as simply as the Children, were a group within the Path of the Open Hand cult founded by the Mother and led by Yana Ro. The other members of the group were Cincey, Treze, and Kor Plouth. Provided a great deal more freedom than other Path members, the purpose of the children was to perform offworld missions for the Mother. Those missions included stealing Force artifacts and bringing them back to their compound on Dalna from people who, in the eyes of Path of the Open Hand, abused the Force and thus were creating harm in the galaxy.The High Republic: Convergence Ultimately, however, the Children would take on missions to "liberate" artifacts from private collections, as well as from religious centers. During those missions, the Path also tried to spread their message to the galaxy and recruit new members. The missions also included enforcing the goals of the Mother in other systems as they tried in the Eiram and E'ronoh War.The High Republic: Convergence While leaving the Path homeworld of Dalna for those missions was itself a form of freedom, the Children also had the autonomy to remove themselves from Path rituals whenever they wished, much to the delight of Ro, who could easily find such ceremonies annoying. Due to the machinations of the Mother, all of the Children except for Yana Ro were killed in an ambush on Thelj, the entire event orchestrated by the Mother. A new group of Children were formed and put on under the leadership of the Herald. This group included Ro, as well as new members Shea Ganandra and Barkov. During the Battle of Jedha, the Mother tasked them with finding and recovering the Rod of Daybreak. Wearing masks and armor, they raided many locations on Jedha until they found it in a vault beneath the Final Protector Jedi statue. *The High Republic: Convergence *The High Republic: Path of Deceit *The High Republic (2022) 4 *The High Republic (2022) 5 *The High Republic (2022) 6 *The High Republic (2022) 7 *The High Republic (2022) 8 *The High Republic (2022) 9 *The High Republic: Path of Vengeance *The High Republic (2022) 10 *Star Wars: The High Republic Character Encyclopedia *Star Wars: The High Republic: The Lightsaber Collection *Star Wars Encyclopedia: The Comprehensive Guide to the Star Wars Galaxy Category:Organizations of Dalna Category:Path of the Open Hand