163105
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Renna_(Rodian)
Renna (Rodian)
3933

Renna was a female Rodian who was the owner of Renna's Transport Service. She was tall for a Rodian and had a very businesslike demeanor. Renna was known to offer a job on the spot to people who impressed her. In 31 BBY, Renna's Service had several shipments hijacked by pirates, as did many of the local trading concerns. Renna started to have issues with her security forces due to this. When one particularly brazen theft occurred in her own compound by thieves wearing her (stolen) security uniforms, one of the pirates, Lars, was captured by a group of strangers. Renna was so impressed with them over her own security forces, she offered them jobs. Those strangers ended up bringing down the pirates and recovering some of the stolen goods. Renna capitalized on the troubles the Metatheran Cartel experienced a few months later, as the group she had hired proved instrumental in revealing Velin Wir's rogue activities. However, Renna was involved in a news investigation soon afterward due to the rapid growth of her business. Renna's Transport Service had grown by 500 percent in a period in which no other local transport concern grew more than 100 percent, which some found suspicious. Although rumors related Renna with Nirama's criminal organization, there were no proofs linking the Service to any smuggling activity. Renna had a relationship with a part-time transport pilot who worked for her, Teeloo. Teeloo was killed by Riboga the Hutt's men because he worked for Nirama, leaving Renna heart-broken. Even after his death, Renna continued the transport service. Renna is incorrectly featured in the last page of RPGA adventure A Revelation: In the critical event summary, the RPGA asks for statistical purposes whether the player characters rescue Renna or not - but Renna is not mentioned in the adventure; the name in the question should have been Gerta Haman, who is susceptible of being rescued. Category:Business owners and executives Category:Cularin residents Category:Females Category:Rodians