163170
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Viera_Cheran
Viera Cheran
4146

Viera Cheran served as Chief Technician for Rogue Squadron and crew chief, responsible for overseeing the maintenance of the squadron's starfighters and all flight deck operations. Known to many as simply "Chief", Cheran believed her job to be a thankless one. The fighter pilots got all the glory, while she and her crew got none. thumb|left|Chief Cheran (right) reports to Wedge Antilles During the Galactic Civil War, Prince Xizor of Black Sun intended to discredit Darth Vader before Emperor Palpatine's eyes. For that end he used his underground connections to bribe bounty hunters and anyone else who could track down and kill Luke Skywalker. Shortly before the Battle of Gall, a weary Cheran was offered 10,000 credits by an operative who wanted Luke Skywalker dead. She saw killing Skywalker as a means to get enough money to buy her own light freighter and become a Free-trader, working only for herself. Cheran decided to take the bribe. Guri paid her through a net of dummy corporations, which would be traced to Saber Enterprises. At the Rogues' temporary base on Kile, she tampered with the R2 unit of Wes Janson's X-wing fighter so that it would take control and fire on Skywalker's. As the battle concluded, Janson's R2 took control of the X-wing and started to hunt and shoot Luke's. However Luke managed to get behind him and shoot a precise hit to his R2. Investigating on the aftermath, Luke and Wedge found that Janson's droid had been programmed by their technician. When they went to interrogate her, she attempted to shoot Luke, before being shot by Wedge. After that incident, they investigated her account and tracked down the bribe to Saber Enterprises. Xizor's plan was foiled, however as he intended, everyone believed that Vader was behind the attempt. *Star Wars: Shadows of the Empire novel *Star Wars: Shadows of the Empire abridged audiobook *Star Wars: Shadows of the Empire junior novelization *Shadows of the Empire 2 *Star Wars: Shadows of the Empire Ertl minicomic *Shadows of the Empire Sourcebook *A Guide to the Star Wars Universe, Third Edition, Revised and Expanded *Rebellion Era Sourcebook *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Females Category:Humans Category:Mechanics Category:Rogue Squadron personnel