163308
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Antarian_pea
Antarian pea
4369

|inedible= |nutrition= |effects= |affiliation= }} Antarian peas were a species of shelled pea that could be eaten. The peas were grown in the gardens of the Jedi Temple on the planet Coruscant, and they were used in various recipes including Endorian chicken pot pie, which was served in the restaurant Dex's Diner on Coruscant. Antarian peas were a species of pea, itself a variety of vegetable. They grew with shells that were removed prior to consumption. The peas could be eaten by members of the Besalisk species. On the planet Coruscant, Antarian peas were grown in the gardens of the Jedi Temple for use in cooking. At some point prior to her death in 19 BBYThe Essential Reader's Companion the Jedi Knight Jang Li-Li wondered if using the Force to shell the peas was an abuse of power while collecting vegetables on dinner duty with the Gran Jedi Master Maks Leem at the Jedi Temple. Before the destruction of Dex's Diner during Galactic Empire's first two years,The Last of the Jedi: Underworld, which The Essential Reader's Companion dates to around 18 BBY, establishes that Dex's Diner was destroyed by the Galactic Empire. The New Essential Chronology dates the Empire's formation to 19 BBY, so Dex's Diner was destroyed either during 19 BBY or 18 BBY. Dexter Jettster, the Besalisk chef who owned the Coruscant restaurant, combined Antarian peas, celonslay, space carrots, and Endorian chicken meat inside a flaky Pom seed flour crust in his recipe for Endorian chicken pot pie. Antarian peas were first mentioned in the 2004 novel Yoda: Dark Rendezvous, which was written by Sean Stewart. They were later mentioned in the StarWars.com Hyperspace exclusive article "Dining at Dex's," which was released in 2009 and written by Gregory Walker in the style of an in-universe menu. The peas shared their name with the gas giant Antar, its moons Antar 4 and Antar 5,The Essential Atlas as well as the group known as the Antarian Rangers.Hero's Guide Neither source that mentioned the peas made any connection between them and these other entities. *Yoda: Dark Rendezvous *Yoda: Dark Rendezvous abridged audiobook Category:Fruits and vegetables