163378
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/RX5-TLN
RX5-TLN
7312

|cost= |length= |width= |height=2.3 meters |mass= |gender= |pronouns= |sensor= |plating= |armament=*Blaster cannon *Portable proton torpedo launcher |equipment= |affiliation=Moff Sarne's forces }} RX5-TLN was an assassin droid stationed on the planet Gandle Ott in the Kathol sector of the Outer Rim Territories by Moff Kentor Sarne, the Imperial warlord of the region. In 8 ABY, RX5-TLN was activated by CUTH-BRT-92-X3, the planetary BRT supercomputer, under orders from Sarne to delay any New Republic forces on Gandle Ott. Moff Sarne had recently been chased from his capital, Kal'Shebbol, by New Republic forces, and had retreated to Gandle Ott. Aware of New Republic pursuit, the Moff took steps to delay and inconvenience the crew of the CR90 corvette FarStar. RX5-TLN attacked the command crew of the FarStar&mdash;who had arrived at Gandle Ott days after Sarne's departure and had stayed to open diplomatic relations&mdash;during a performance of the opera Madra Teene at the Theatre Danske in Montrol City. The resulting battle ended in the destruction of RX5-TLN. RX5-TLN was an assassin droid located on the planet Gandle Ott in the Kathol sector of the Outer Rim Territories. Put in place by Imperial warlord Moff Kentor Sarne in case it was needed, RX5-TLN was left dormant to be activated by a remote command sent by the planetary BRT supercomputer, CUTH-BRT-92-X3. In 8 ABY, Moff Sarne was deposed from his capital on Kal'Shebbol by New Republic forces. The Moff retreated to Gandle Ott with his fleet, took on supplies, and stripped the system of its defense force. To forestall any New Republic pursuit, Sarne had his primary agent on the planet, Colonel Olaver Lansel, activate a series of command protocols in CUTH-BRT-92-X3 that made the computer obey Imperial commands without question. CUTH-BRT-92-X3 was ordered to delay any New Republic forces at Gandle Ott through any means at its disposal. Shortly after Sarne's departure from the planet, the New Republic CR90 corvette FarStar arrived in orbit. A delegation from the FarStar spent several days on the planet establishing diplomatic relations. Throughout the course of the visit, CUTH-BRT-92-X3 tried several methods to incapacitate the New Republic delegation, without success. On the fourth day of the visit, CUTH-BRT-92-X3 activated RX5-TLN. Once activated, RX5-TLN was completely separated from the networks controlled by CUTH-BRT-92-X3, meaning that the assassin could not be recalled by the computer. The droid's orders were to eliminate the command crew of the FarStar and disable the corvette. At the time of RX5-TLN's activation, the command crew of the FarStar was attending a performance of Madra Teene, an opera telling of a droid uprising on a colonial world, at the Theatre Danske in Montrol City. The droid planned to ambush and kill the officers at the opera, then proceed to the FarStar, infiltrate the ship, and use its in-built torpedoes to disable the vessel from within. After arriving at the Theatre Danske, RX5-TLN blended in with the cast of the opera, several of whom were dressed as assassin droids for the production. RX5-TLN made his way on stage during the performance, and attempted to kill the FarStar command crew members, who were sitting in the first two rows. The FarStar officers&mdash;including Captain Kaiya Adrimetrum, First Officer Gorak Khzam, and Chief Engineer Lofryyhn&mdash;reacted to the attack, and began to battle the droid in the theater. The battle was fought throughout the building, including in the aisles, balconies, dressing rooms, backstage areas, and the orchestra pit. Eventually, RX5-TLN was destroyed by the FarStar officers. Shortly after, the FarStar crew left Gandle Ott in pursuit of Sarne, having learned that he was heading to the planet Shintel. RX5-TLN was a bipedal droid that stood 2.3 meters and had a cylindrical head. Covered in body armor, the droid mounted a blaster cannon on its left arm, and a portable proton torpedo launcher with a magazine of three torpedoes was built into the right arm. RX5-TLN appeared in "Death Is Remotely Possible," the third adventure in The DarkStryder Campaign published by West End Games in 1995.The DarkStryder Campaign *The DarkStryder Campaign *The DarkStryder Campaign, Deluxe Category:Assassin droids Category:Droids with unspecified gender programming Category:Droids with unspecified pronouns