163389
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Crimler_Naval_Base
Crimler Naval Base
5063

|location=Montrol City, Gandle Ott, Kathol sector |interest= |rebuilt= |builder= |height= |width= |affiliation=Moff Sarne's forces }} Crimler Naval Base was an Imperial military installation in Montrol City, the capital of the planet Gandle Ott in the Kathol sector. Following his defeat by New Republic forces in 8 ABY that resulted in the loss of his capital, Kal'Shebbol, Moff Kentor Sarne, warlord of the Kathol sector, stopped at Gandle Ott as he retreated with his forces. Sarne's fleet took on supplies from the base during his layover before continuing on into the depths of the sector. Crimler Naval Base was an Imperial military installation in Montrol City, the capital city of the planet Gandle Ott, located in the Ott system of the Kathol sector. Comprised of the main naval base and several adjacent depots, the installation was stocked with supplies to re-provision Imperial Fleet assets. The naval base was staffed by Imperial personnel who were loyal to Warlord Moff Kentor Sarne, who ruled the Kathol sector in 8 ABY after breaking away from the Empire following the death of Emperor Palpatine during the Battle of Endor four years previously. Crimler Naval Base was established on the planet Gandle Ott in the Kathol sector of the Outer Rim Territories. In 8 ABY, the base was under the control of Imperial forces loyal to Moff Kentor Sarne, who ruled the sector as a warlord. Sarne, who had recently been ousted from his capital on the planet Kal'Shebbol by New Republic forces, led the majority of his fleet to Gandle Ott as he retreated into the depths of the Kathol sector. While in orbit, he began loading supplies from Crimler Naval Base and recalled all reserve military personnel on the planet to duty. News of Sarne's defeat at Kal'Shebbol had not reached the planet, and the Moff claimed to the media that he was leading the large fleet on an extended mission to exterminate pirates and Rebels throughout the sector. The Moff's actions were documented by Dana Cadwell, a reporter for the NewsNet KatholNet, who filed a news report entitled Moff Sarne Prepares For Pirate Purge. A couple of days later, the fleet departed from Gandle Ott to carry out the mission on which Sarne had claimed to be. In the aftermath of the departure, it was discovered that Sarne had not only taken the supplies but the majority of the planet's defense force and active military personnel with him, including the planetary governor. The loss of many high-ranking officials left Gandle Ott's government in disarray, leading to political infighting between senior government figures Vice-Governor Marja Lang and General Herron Dade over who should take over the absent governor's position. The Crimler Naval Base was mentioned in the RPG adventure Death Is Remotely Possible, which was published in The DarkStryder Campaign by West End Games in 1995. It played no part in the adventure and was only mentioned in an in-universe NewsNet article. *The DarkStryder Campaign *The DarkStryder Campaign, Deluxe Category:Gandle Ott locations Category:Imperial military bases