163590
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Neimoidian_Royal_Guard
Neimoidian Royal Guard
10445

**Trade Federation Home Defense Legions *Confederacy of Independent Systems **Confederacy military *House MacconPoe Dameron 20 }} The Neimoidian Royal Guard, whose members were known as Neimoidian guards, Neimoidian soldiers, or Neimoidian gunners, was a military branch of the government of the Neimoidian Purse World Cato Neimoidia. Members of the Guard also served the Trade Federation and Confederacy military. Organized under the Trade Federation Home Defense Legions, the Neimoidian Royal Guard was a Neimoidian security force composed of personnel identified as Neimoidian guards, Neimoidian soldiers, or Neimoidian gunners.Star Wars: The Visual Encyclopedia The Royal Guard served as a security branch within both the Cato Neimoidian government and Trade Federation corporation. As a result of the Trade Federation's alliance with the Confederacy of Independent Systems, something that was officially covered up by the Federation's supposed neutrality, members of the Neimoidian Royal Guard found themselves serving the Confederacy military while others, such as those within the Cato Neimoidian government or serving more neutral Federation personnel, found themselves outside the CIS military. The Neimoidian House Maccon also maintained a force of guards. After questioning the Trade Federation, Ruug Quarnom was discharged from the Neimoidian special forces and assigned to the Royal Guard on Cato Neimoidia, where she was assigned the young guard Ketar Nor as her partner, with Quarnom becoming a mentor to her partner. When a massive bombing, secretly orchestrated by the Sith, rocked the Cadesura district, the Galactic Republic dispatched Jedi General Obi-Wan Kenobi to clear its name and investigate, while the Confederacy of Independent Systems sent Commander Asajj Ventress. Ventress managed to convince Nor, who already hated the Republic for its anti-Neimoidian prejudices, to begin a new bombing campaign designed to push his people to the Separatists, but he was stopped by the Jedi and Quarnom. While the Cato Neimoidian government remained neutral, Quarnom was branded a traitor thanks to Nor's testimony, but she was rescued from battle droids by Kenobi and Anakin Skywalker. thumb|left|230px|A Neimoidian soldier during the Blockade of Pantora In 21 BBY, Neimoidian guards were stationed onboard the Trade Federation's command ship during the Blockade of Pantora. Some of them were given their own offices aboard the vessel. Jedi Padawan Ahsoka Tano was able to mind trick a guard into letting her and senator Riyo Chuchi enter the detention block. Following the freeing of the kidnapped Chi Eekway, the Federation's envoy and a squad of Neimoidian soldiers arrived at the scene to stop them. To avoid a scandal with the Republic over the Sib Canay's scheme, the envoy allowed them to leave and convinced the higher-ups to end the blockade. Neimoidian soldiers were also part of the Trade Federation Home Defense Legions that made up the Confederacy of Independent Systems' forces that fought against the Republic's 2nd Fleet, which had blockaded the Quellor sector where the Federation's purse worlds were. Several of Neimoidian guards were present at a mining complex on Mustafar protecting the Separatist Council. However, when Sith Lord Darth Vader arrived under orders from his Sith Master, Darth Sidious, to dispose of the Separatist Council, the Sith apprentice slew all present. During the New Republic Era, House Maccon employed a number of Neimoidian Royal Guards as security personnel. In 34 ABY, Lor San Tekka traveled to Cato Neimoidia and entered the Palace of Baron Paw Maccon, disguised as a visitor on a guided tour. However, after finding the Kazerath device which he sought he was arrested by Neimoidian guards. The general attire of the Neimoidian Royal Guard was a suit of bronze armor completed with a helmet of the same color. The gear was a heavy suit of armor, but it was lighter than the armor worn by Neimoidian heavy troops. The standard weaponry of the guard was a type of long rifle. Nonetheless, the Neimoidian Guards aboard the Droid Control Ship orbiting the moon of Pantora wore grey sharp-edged pauldrons, gauntlets, and helmets, as well as bluish light armor with symbols of the Trade Federation on them. For weaponry, they wielded Weequay blaster pistols. Commandos in the Neimoidian special forces wore maroon armor. The formfitting commando gear blended the mobility of standard guard armor with the protection of heavy troopers thanks to its plating. During the Cold War between the First Order and the Resistance, Neimoidian guards in the employ of House Maccon wore grey heavy armor with bronze helmets and the long rifles. During the development of Star Wars: Episode III Revenge of the Sith, one predecessor to the Neimoidian Guard design used the Abyssin species previously seen in Star Wars: Episode IV A New Hope. This design, called simply the "Separatist Alien Guard," was depicted in concept art and later included on the Star Wars: The Complete Saga blu-ray collection.Star Wars: The Complete Saga, Disc 7, Star Wars Archives: Episode III Separatist Alien Guard Concept Like other unique alien soldiers seen in the film, the Neimoidian guard needed specifically designed guns for their organization, so that work was done by Ty Teiger's team. Teiger later recalled making Neimoidian guns as an example of how work on Revenge of the Sith was "more specific" than work on the previous prequel trilogy films, which had comparatively more background characters to focus on. Using the Neimoidian gun as an example, Teiger broke down the creative process in an interview with Star Wars: Revenge of the Sith: Official Episode III Souvenir Movie Guide, explaining that he would receive a base sketch, which he then passed out to twenty propmakers, each of whom had their own creative approach to making the weapon, allowing Director George Lucas to pick from a diverse spread of options. *Star Wars Journeys: Beginnings *Brotherhood *Darth Vader (2020) 7 *Darth Vader (2020) 24 *Darth Vader (2020) 33 *Poe Dameron 20 *Star Wars: The Clone Wars The Complete Season Three *Star Wars: The Visual Encyclopedia *Rise of the Separatists Category:Organizations of Cato Neimoidia Category:Separatist military units Category:Trade Federation military units