163739
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Seer%27aa
Seer'aa
3540

Seer'aa was a female Twi'lek assassin, who worked in partnership with Teer'aa. Once slaves from Ryloth, they killed their Masters and then became bounty hunters known as the Twin Suns, using deadly blades along with personal energy shields. In 3951 BBY Atton Rand faced them in a cantina while separated from Meetra Surik on Nar Shaddaa and defeated them. Surik, along with two of her companions, later faced them aboard the Visionary and killed Seer'aa and her partner shortly before it exploded. Born on Ryloth, Seer'aa and Teer'aa were sold into slavery at young age. At some point they killed their master, taking their first steps into the career of assassins. During the aftermath of the Jedi Civil War, the Twin Suns traveled on the Visionary with several other bounty hunters. Goto instructed them to capture Meetra Surik alive, informing them that death would not be tolerated. They successfully tracked down Surik's companion Atton Rand while Surik was in the Jekk'Jekk Tarr. At first, they attempted to get Atton to come with them peacefully, but soon resorted to violence. Atton managed to defeat them and escape. The outcome of the first encounter angered the duo, so they returned to the Visionary, where they waited for Surik and her friends. They finally got their chance just as the ship was falling apart. They tried to kill Surik, but she and two of her companions killed them. Their bodies were destroyed when the Visionary exploded. Seer'aa and Teer'aa appeared, though unnamed, in Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic II: The Sith Lords video game. Their names were later revealed by Leland Chee. If Atton comes aboard Goto's ship to rescue the Exile, he will groan at the sight of Seer'aa and her partner, and promises they will both stay down in the ensuing battle. *Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic II: The Sith Lords Category:Assassins Category:Bounty hunters Category:Enslaved individuals Category:Females Category:Twi'leks