163989
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Manforgon
Manforgon
6268

Manforgon was a planet located in the Mid Rim's Senex sector. It was used for centuries as a penal colony of the Senex-Juvex region. Eventually becoming a lawless world fought over by warlords, Manforgon was turned over to the Galactic Empire by the noble houses of the Senex-Juvex. The Empire used the planet for military purposes, and during the Galactic Civil War, Imperial Customs Officer Tellix served there. Manforgon was a terrestrial planet located in the Manforgon system of the Senex sector, a part of the Senex-Juvex region in the Western Reaches portion of the Mid Rim. The Senex-Juvex Loop hyperlane linked it to the Mussubir system as well as the Kassido system of the neighboring Juvex sector. Manforgon was a dull, brownish gray&ndash;colored world. For centuries, Manforgon was used as a penal colony that held prisoners from the entire Senex-Juvex region. Over time, Manforgon became a lawless planet, with warlords fighting each other over control. Eventually, Manforgon came to be frequently used as a setting in the Senex-Juvex region's romances, which would begin with either an illegitimate child or a framed noble being abandoned on the planet, only to triumphantly return from it later. At some point following the establishment of the Galactic Empire in 19 BBY,The New Essential Chronology the galactic government demanded that the lords of the aristocratic Ancient Houses of the Senex-Juvex surrender the control of a world in the region for use by the Imperial Military. The nobles complied and indifferently ceded Manforgon. Shortly thereafter, the planet had become known as one of the least pleasant duty posts in the Empire. During the Galactic Civil War, Tellix held the post of Imperial Customs Officer on Manforgon. At one point, he approached a starship that had landed on the planet, inquiring as to the vessel's point of origin and its crew's business on Manforgon. One of the crewmembers, Anderun, then claimed that the starship had traveled from the Outer Rim Territories planet Tatooine with a cargo of a beverage known as sand wine. Among the prisoners on Manforgon were members of the Hutlarian species as well as Humans, including those hailing from the world of Aquella. Adventurous Senex-Juvex men sometimes landed on Manforgon incognito in order to boost their reputations. Manforgon was first mentioned in the 2000 core rulebook for the Wizards of the Coast Star Wars Roleplaying Game. In the book, the planet is described as the setting of a hypothetical roleplaying game adventure. This article assumes the scenario plays out as described. The 2009 reference book The Essential Atlas placed it in grid square L-17. *Star Wars Roleplaying Game Core Rulebook *Star Wars Roleplaying Game Revised Core Rulebook *The Essential Atlas Category:Galactic Empire planets Category:Locations along the Senex-Juvex Loop Category:Planets in the Mid Rim Category:Planets in the Western Reaches Category:Prison planets Category:Senex sector locations Category:Terrestrial planets