164069
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Qlothos
Qlothos
6449

|imports= |exports= |affiliation= }} Qlothos was an Inner Rim planet with a cloudy atmosphere. By 3 ABY, the Imperial II-class Star Destroyer Interrogator detected unusual transmissions from the nearby Qlothos that resembled those made by the Rebel Alliance. Acting on the suspicion that the signals indicated the presence of a Rebel garrison, Senior Lieutenant Leeds ordered a TIE bomber strike on the planet. However, one of the bombers' missiles veered off target and destroyed a residential community, causing the deaths of nearly sixty Galactic Empire citizens, including a prominent Kuat Drive Yards engineer. The Star Destroyer's Captain Jovan Vharing, who had been asleep when the attack was carried out, was subsequently executed for Leeds' blunder. Qlothos was a planet located in the Qlothos system, a part of the Trailing Sectors portion of the Inner Rim. It had a cloudy atmosphere that could interfere with the identification beacons built into the concussion missiles of the TIE/sa bomber. thumb|right|300px|Captain Jovan Vharing (pictured) was executed for the disastrous attack on Qlothos ordered by his senior lieutenant Leeds. By 3 ABY,The Essential Reader's Companion dates the events of to 3 ABY. a high-ranking Kuat Drive Yards engineer was visiting the capital of Qlothos on a holiday with his wife and two sons. At the same time, the Imperial II-class Star Destroyer Interrogator of the Galactic Empire was stationed near the planet. While the starship's captain, Jovan Vharing, was sleeping, Senior Lieutenant Leeds detected unusual transmissions from Qlothos on a frequency that was highly similar to a set of previously intercepted transmission codes used by a Rebel Alliance operative. Erroneusly believing that the transmissions indicated the existence of a secret Alliance garrison, Leeds dispatched a full squadron of TIE/sa bombers to destroy it. Due to interference from the planet's atmosphere, one of the bombers' concussion missiles veered off target and hit a secluded section of a residential community situated a kilometer from the location of the suspected Rebel facility, destroying the latter. As a result, almost sixty civilians, most of whom were prominent Imperial citizens and officialsThe Essential Reader's Companion and which included the Kuat Drive Yards engineer and his family, were killed. After the casualties of the attack had been determined, Leeds awakened Vharing, and, mere hours later, while the Interrogator was moving in to investigate the Nharqis'I nebula of the Outer Rim Territories in 3 ABY, the captain was summoned to meet Imperial High Inquisitor Antinnis Tremayne, who promptly executed him. Qlothos was a defenseless resort world. Qlothos had a capital and a residential community. Qlothos was first mentioned in the short story "The Longest Fall," which was written by Patricia A. Jackson and published in the November 1996 eleventh issue of West End Games' Star Wars Adventure Journal magazine. The 2009 reference book The Essential Atlas placed the Qlothos system, and therefore the planet, in grid square M-14. *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Planets in the Inner Rim Category:Planets in the Trailing Sectors