164019
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Freyyr%27s_warblade
Freyyr's warblade
5708

Freyyr's warblade was a powerful double-bladed Wookiee warblade owned by Freyyr, a male Wookiee who served as the chieftain of the village of Rwookrrorro on the planet Kashyyyk. In 3956 BBY, after being ousted from his position as chieftain by his son, Chuundar, Freyyr used the warblade during his exile to the Shadowlands at the bottom of the forests of Kashyyyk. It was with this weapon that Freyyr attacked the amnesiac former Sith Lord, Revan, and the former Jedi Jolee Bindo when they were searching for a Rakatan Star Map in the Shadowlands. At one point before the Dark Wars, the sword, which had Freyyr's symbol carved into it, was taken off the Wookiee homeworld of Kashyyyk. Freyyr's warblade was a very powerful double-bladed melee weapon, upon which was inscribed the symbol of Freyyr, a Wookiee chieftain of the village Rwookrrorro. Like other Wookiee warblades, it required two hands for effective use. Its blades were silver-colored, and the handle of the weapon was a shade of brown. thumb|left|150px|Freyyr with his warblade in the Shadowlands Freyyr's warblade was owned by the Wookiee chieftain Freyyr, who lived on the planet Kashyyyk in the village of Rwookrrorro during the Jedi Civil War. In 3956 BBY, he took the double-bladed weapon with him when he was exiled to the Shadowlands, the bottom of the forests of Kashyyyk, after being ousted from his position by his son, Chuundar. While in the Shadowlands, Freyyr became almost feral, to the extent that he would attack anyone he met, even his own friends. When the amnesiac former Sith Lord Revan was searching for a Rakatan Star Map on Kashyyyk, his search took him to the Shadowlands, where he obtained the aid of the former Jedi Jolee Bindo. In the Shadowlands, Freyyr encountered Revan and Bindo, and due to Freyyr's savage behavior, he attacked them with his warblade in spite of his friendship with Bindo. However, Revan and Bindo defeated Freyyr without killing him, and they were able to reason with him and discovered the story of his exile. By the Dark Wars, Freyyr's warblade had been transported off of the Wookiee homeworld of Kashyyyk and was no longer in Freyyr's possession. During that time, the weapon was valued at 29,955 credits. thumb|right|140px|Freyyr's other sword Freyyr's warblade made its first appearance in the 2003 BioWare video game Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic. While Freyyr had the warblade during scenes in the Kashyyyk Shadowlands, the warblade was not the sword that Freyyr used later in the game when taking back his position as chieftain from his son, Chuundar. During the coup, Freyyr wielded a single-bladed weapon that was similar to the vibroblades seen in the game. The weapon was first referred to as Freyyr's warblade in the 2004 video game Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic II: The Sith Lords by Obsidian Entertainment. In The Sith Lords, it was a rare melee weapon that could be found in randomly determined places throughout the game. Due to this fact, the player was not guaranteed to find the weapon each time through the game. Freyyr's warblade was one of the most powerful melee weapons in the game, and it also possessed an increased attack bonus. *Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic *Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic II: The Sith Lords *Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic II: The Sith Lords: Prima Official Game Guide Category:Double-bladed swords Category:Personal weapons Category:Wookiee weapons