166078
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Scamp
Scamp
7102

Scamp was a young thief on the planet of Solay. Born during the rule of the Galactic Empire, Scamp was part of a large family that lived in the slums of the planet of Solay. Scamp's father taught his son how to steal from those in the richer parts of town. Schooling the boy in a variety of tricks of the trade, Scamp's father made the boy into an accomplished pickpocket. Scamp was forced to turn over the majority of the loot to his father, but he was careful to always hide the best pickings for himself. Scamp eventually built a reputation that allowed him to get into the seedier parts of the planet, including local cantinas. In one of these places, Scamp became acquainted with the infochant Braxas. Following the Battle of Endor, revolutionaries on Solay led by the freedom fighter Raggold rose up against the Solay Royal Court. However, thanks to a traitor in the rebel ranks, an Imperial fleet led by the local Imperial governor quickly annexed the world into the Empire. Luke Skywalker, a Rebel hero who had fought in the recent battle, was searching for the traitor when he was encountered by Scamp. Seeing an easy mark, Scamp attempted to steal Skywalker's lightsaber but was caught in the act. Skywalker told the young thief that he was searching for the traitor, and Scamp offered to help&mdash;hoping to make some money from the endeavor. Before starting their search, Scamp revealed information about the traitor, telling the Rebel that the Imperial Governor had financed the rebellion against the Solay Royal Court so that he could step in afterward and take full control of the planet. Scamp led Skywalker to the home of a wealthy rebel soldier, hoping to rob the man during Skywalker's interrogation. As Skywalker used the Force to threaten the man, Scamp filled a sack with stolen wealth. However, the man knew nothing about the traitor, and Scamp and Skywalker left. Skywalker, depressed over the lack of progress, rebuked Scamp for stealing from the wealthy rebel. Scamp justified his actions, claiming that he had only stolen from a fellow thief. Scamp suggested that the two visit the Solay spaceport, in order to question the former leader of the world, King Blackart, who would likely attempt to flee the world by stealing a ship. Just as Scamp predicted, the two found Blackart at the spaceport, but when they confronted him, Blackart lashed out at Skywalker, knocking him down and escaping to a nearby rocket ship. Scamp, intent on stopping Blackart from escaping, helped Skywalker to his feet, gave him a wing pack, and placed him on a jump platform. Pulling a lever to the platform, Skywalker was propelled high into the air, and he used his pack to glide towards Blackart's escaping ship. Skywalker destroyed Blackart's ship, forcing the ex-King to crash land. Scamp and Skywalker interrogated Blackart, but the King also had no idea who the traitor had been. Skywalker, depressed that their search had led nowhere, wandered the streets, engrossed in his own thoughts about the situation. Scamp woke Skywalker from his stupor, and the two returned to Scamp's stash to drop off the stolen loot. Scamp was greeted warmly by his family, but his father yelled at his young thief for bringing back such a small haul. Skywalker attempted to intervene, but Scamp held the Rebel back. The two left Scamp's home, where Skywalker began to sympathize with the young boy. Scamp, warming to the Rebel soldier, led Skywalker to one last person who might have answers. At a local bar, Scamp introduced Skywalker to Braxas, who had information about the traitor. Braxas revealed that the traitor had been Raggold, the leader of the Solay revolutionaries who had been killed in the battle. In exchange for the information, Braxas requested that Skywalker take him off-world, and the two left Scamp behind, escaping Solay in Skywalker's shuttle. Scamp was a precocious young boy who supported his family by stealing from the wealthier populace of Solay. Scamp justified his thievery by claiming that he had a different point of view from others. Scamp was well-liked by his family, who were always happy to see him return home. However, his father usually threatened the young boy, demanding better results and more loot from his son. Scamp was created by Ann Nocenti for use in Marvel's original Star Wars issue 89. Scamp's name may in fact be a nickname, as the word "scamp" refers to a mischievous rascal. However, the boy introduces himself as "Scamp," and both his family and the citizens of Solay refer to him as Scamp. However, Scamp's father calls the boy "the Scamp," suggesting that it is simply a nickname. Nevertheless, the boy's father, an abusive man, may have named him Scamp as a form of further psychological abuse. *Star Wars (1977) 89 Category:Humans Category:Males Category:Solay residents Category:Thieves