167576
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Fnessian
Fnessian
4537

*Eyestalks *Thos gender |lifespan= |origin=Fnessal |habitat= |diet= |language= }} The Fnessian were a sentient species indigenous to the Inner Rim planet Fnessal. They had two eyestalks on their head, from the back of which grew thick, fleshy tendrils. Fnessian biology included a gender known as "thos." Kn'ik Th'ronik was a Fnessian smuggler during the period of the Galactic Civil War and stole the freighter Morgannier while on Ord Mantell, causing the SoroSuub Corporation to place a large bounty on the Fnessian's head. The Fnessian were a sentient species. They were humanoid, with two upper limbs that ended in hands with at least four fingers. Their heads had two flexible eyestalks, one extending upward from each side. A number of thick fleshy tendrils covered the back of their heads, growing downward. Fnessians also had a row of other corrugations on their faces. The Fnessian had a gender known as "thos." The Fnessian Kn'ik Th'ronik was a thos and lived to at least thirty-five standard years of age. The smuggler Th'ronik was rumored to have an aversion to violence and had never engaged in battle; the Fnessian instead escaped several bounty hunters using deception and was reputed to be a crafty individual. The Fnessian were native to the Inner Rim &mdash; Based on corresponding data for Fnessal system planet Fnessal. During the Galactic Civil War, the Fnessian Kn'ik Th'ronik smuggled weapons and droids and was suspected of having ties with the Alliance to Restore the Republic. While on Ord Mantell, Th'ronik stole the freighter Morgannier, earning the ire of the SoroSuub Corporation. They placed a 4,000 credits bounty on Th'ronik for either his capture or proof of his death; in the event of the latter, SoroSuub could verify his identity with a genetic sample kept on their file. SoroSuub also offered a bonus of gems worth 10,000 credits if the Morgannier was returned in good condition. Associates of the Fnessian included the Human Timma Briss and the Sullustan Bolabo Hujaan, although Th'ronik frequently worked alone. The Fnessians were created for the West End Games sourcebook No Disintegrations, published in 1997. *No Disintegrations Category:Inner Rim sentient species