167788
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Namuura_Din
Namuura Din
8843

Namuura Din was a commander in the Imperial Navy, serving as one of Admiral Demetrius Zaarin's top commanders and later joining him when he splintered off from the Empire and founded a new faction during the Galactic Civil War. Upon learning of Emperor Palpatine's plans for the Rebel Alliance at Endor and the Death Star II superweapon's fully operational status, Din decided to defect to the Alliance and provide them with the information and a Missile Boat. While he met with the Rebel cruiser Link at a rendezvous point aboard his command ship, the Zeplin, and successfully transferred them, Imperial forces attacked the ships, and the Zeplin was captured with Din aboard. He divulged his knowledge to the Sith Lord Darth Vader in a subsequent interrogation. thumb|right|300px|The Zeplin, Namuura Din's command ship Namuura Din held the rank of commander in the Imperial Navy during the Empire's reign. With the Victory-class Star Destroyer Zeplin as his command ship, he was one of Admiral Demetrius Zaarin's top commanders. Amid the ongoing Galactic Civil War between the Empire and Rebel Alliance, Din joined Zaarin when the admiral betrayed the Empire and formed his own faction to strike against them. According to an Imperial spy, Zaarin and his senior staff were aware of Emperor Palpatine's plans for the Alliance at the moonThe New Essential Chronology Endor and the Death Star II superweapon being fully operational. Having learned of this from Zaarin, Din decided to betray him and defect to the Alliance in order to pass the information on to them as well as supply them with one of the few Missile Boats the admiral had under his possession. In 3 ABY, Din was aboard the Zeplin when it entered deep within the Emperor's home area near the planet Coruscant in the midst of a battle between Zaarin's forces and the Empire. The Zeplin stayed for a short while before jumping into hyperspace. Following the battle, the Zeplin met with the Rebel cruiser Link at a rendezvous point so that Din could pass the information on to the Rebel commander and hand over the Missile Boat. Although the operation was a success, the Zeplin was intercepted by Imperial forces consisting of Assault Gunboats and the Sith Lord Darth Vader's Star Destroyer Garrett. The Link escaped shortly after with the Missile Boat and information intact. As the Victory-class Star Destroyer retaliated, it was disabled by the gunboats' ion cannons and boarded by transports launched from the Garrett, resulting in both the ship and Din's capture. In the battle's aftermath, the Zeplin was sent to an Imperial shipyard for an examination by Imperial Intelligence while Vader interrogated Din, who confessed both what he had learned from Zaarin and what the Rebels had received to the Sith Lord. Subsequently, the Empire prevented the Link from reaching Alliance High Command and recovered the stolen Missile Boat. Namuura Din was created for "Enemies of the Empire," an expansion pack for Totally Games' 1994 video game Star Wars: TIE Fighter, which was included in the game's Collector's CD-ROM in 1995.Star Wars: TIE Fighter Collector's CD-ROM Din was also mentioned in Prima Games' 1996 strategy guide for the game. In one instance, the guide misspells the character's first name as "Namurra." The guide also states that Din was suspected by the Empire to have received information on the Death Star by the Bothans,TIE Fighter Collector's CD-ROM: The Official Strategy Guide a humanoid species, contradicting TIE Fighter previously stating he had learned the information from Zaarin. This article follows the game's version of events. *Star Wars: TIE Fighter Collector's CD-ROM *TIE Fighter Collector's CD-ROM: The Official Strategy Guide Category:Imperial defectors Category:Imperial Navy officers Category:Individuals of unspecified gender Category:Individuals of unspecified species Category:Individuals with he/him pronouns Category:Zaarin coup members