168155
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Battle_of_Halanit
Battle of Halanit
5009

After the rogue starfighter unit Rogue Squadron conducted a number of raids against Xucphra Corporation bacta convoys, Ysanne Isard retaliated by destroying a colony on the planet Halanit. The target, on the planet Halanit, was a small colony which had received some of the bacta seized by Rogue Squadron from the Xucphra Corporation's bacta convoys. The initial attack against the colony was conducted by TIE starfighters flown by Thyferran Home Defense Corps pilots, chosen by Xucphra Chief Operating Officer Ysanne Isard to increase the native Thyferrans' involvement in the ongoing campaign against the Rogues. Launching from the Victory II-class Star Destroyer Corrupter, Commander Erisi Dlarit guided a group of four TIE interceptors and four TIE bombers belonging to the Thyferran Home Defense Corps. The TIE bombers dropped thermal detonators to melt the ice covering the double-paneled transparisteel dome protecting the colony. The uncovered dome was then destroyed with the use of high-yield proton bombs. With the dome destroyed, the TIE Interceptors began to strafe the civilians while two Lambda-class shuttles landed and began to unload their stormtroopers. The colony in itself had no weapons of any sort, but Gavin Darklighter, who was refueling his starfighter there after having escaped with a blind-jump from the Corrupter during a bacta tanker hijacking, tried to protect the colonists. The Rogue Squadron pilot managed to shoot down three Interceptors, before he was forced to jump away. After the short battle, the Corrupter initiated a planetary barrage that expanded the damage done by the TIE Bombers and stormtroopers. The New Republic sent ships for rescue purposes, but it was believed that none of the colonists survived the attack. The retaliatory strike at Halanit forced Rogue Squadron to alter their tactics to avoid further harm to innocent worlds, put into practice in the subsequent attack on the Q5A7 Bacta Refinement Plant on Qretu 5. *X-Wing: The Bacta War Category:Battles in the Colonies Category:Battles of the Bacta War Category:Genocides and massacres Category:Orbital bombardments