168272
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Vam_Margan
Vam Margan
3903

Vam Margan was a Major, stationed on Vergesso Base where he commanded a battalion of Natori Association soldiers.Shadows of the Empire Planets Guide Margan was a former special missions battalion commander in the Imperial Army before he resigned his commission for personal reasons, and joined the Natori Association around 0 ABY.The Shadows of the Empire Planets Guide mentions that he resigned the Imperial Army "three years ago". According to The New Essential Chronology, the events of Shadows of the Empire, including the Battle of the Bajic Shipyards, occurred in 3.5 ABY, therefore this happened in 0 ABY. Margan avoided talking about his past, and it remained unknown why he resigned and how he avoided the attention of the ISB and Ubiqtorate. During the Galactic Civil War he had the rank of Major and was stationed on Vergesso Base where he commanded a battalion of Natori Association soldiers.Shadows of the Empire Planets Guide In the aftermath of the battle of the Bajic Shipyards, Margan and Nim Zanti happened to be at the Base Operations Center and survived the disaster in the fortified bunker. Gathering the survivors, they led them through the turbolift maintenance ladders to the upper levels. Reaching the Life, they were under attack by a squad of confused, space-suited mercenaries, before Margan ordered them to cease fire. Before reaching the Facility, they encountered a squad of spacetroopers. Making their way to the asteroid surface, they found a platoon of spacetroopers; they managed to steal and hijack their assault shuttle, guarded by bored and unexpecting crewmen. As the shuttle was heading to open space, the Imperials realized that something was wrong and sent TIEs to destroy it. Margan was a hard-nosed practical man with a deep concern for the safety of the men under his command. He was an honorable man who was dedicated to fulfilling his contracts. The scenario Will the Last Person Leaving Vergesso Turn Off the Lights? allows the option to have Vim Zanti and/or Vam Margan among the suvivors of the Battle, that might lead the team of survivors. This article assumes that Margan had this role. *Shadows of the Empire Planets Guide *Pirates & Privateers Category:Criminals Category:Humans Category:Imperial Army officers of the Galactic Empire Category:Males