168767
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Irrv
Irrv
13782

|pronouns=He/him |height= |mass= |hair= |feathers= |eyes= |skin= |cyber= |families= |parents= |partners= |siblings= |children= |affiliation=*Galactic Empire **Imperial Army |masters= |apprentices= }} Irrv was a male general in the Army of the Galactic Empire. He rose to his position through his support of Emperor Palpatine's New Order, and was assigned by the Emperor to subjugate the planet Culroon III. Irrv chose to coordinate a peaceful transition of power from the Culroon leader, Kloff, through a ceremony, an idea that was decried by Junior Lieutenant Maximilian Veers. For speaking out, Irrv gave Veers a demerit, confined him to the Imperial base, and proceeded with the plan. The ceremony was attended by Irrv, the chief Imperial officers, and a legion of stormtroopers. When Irrv handed Kloff a Naval sword, the Culroon stabbed his aide, Colonel Jeffers, and thousands of Culroon warriors emerged from the surrounding trees to attack the Imperials, intending to kidnap the general. Irrv ordered the stormtroopers to form a protective circle around him until Veers intervened by marching an All Terrain Armored Transport toward the ceremonial grounds, breaking the Culroon's attack. Irrv still threatened Veers with a court-martial, but was executed by stormtrooper commander Grath first. thumb|right|250px|Culroon III, which Irrv was ordered to subjugate by Emperor Palpatine Irrv was a male who supported Emperor Palpatine's New Order as it supplanted the Galactic Republic in 19 BBY.The Essential Atlas As a result, Irrv was guaranteed a high military rank and became a general in the Imperial Army of the new Galactic Empire. Between the formation of the Empire and 9 BBY, Irrv was ordered by Palpatine to subjugate the planet Culroon III and its indigenous species, the Culroon, in whatever manner he saw fit. The general hoped to understand and work with the Culroon, and therefore he arranged to hold a ceremony with the Culroon's leader, Kloff, to peacefully transfer power to the Empire through the exchange of a ceremonial blaster and a Naval sword. The Junior Lieutenant Maximilian Veers spent several weeks supervising the construction of an Imperial garrison in Kloff's territory. In that time, Veers learned about the brutal wars that occurred throughout the species' history and believed they would not surrender peacefully. At a staff meeting, Veers criticized the planned ceremony, unaware that his superior officer had orchestrated it, and suggested that the Imperials use force to subjugate the Culroon. Irrv accused Veers of bloodlust stemming from his training at the Imperial Academy and threatened to reassign him to riding a dewback on the desert planet Tatooine if he continued to speak. thumb|left|285px|Lieutenant Maximilian Veers (pictured) saved General Irrv during the insurrection on Culroon III. Irrv gave Veers a demerit for speaking out and confined him to the garrison for the duration of the Imperial occupation, under threat of court-martial if he disobeyed. Irrv attended the ceremony alongside the other chief Imperial officers on the planet, including his aide, Colonel Jeffers, and stormtrooper commander Grath, who was Irrv's superior officer. The officers were accompanied by a legion of stormtroopers wielding ceremonial weapons. Kloff attended the ceremony with only a dozen warriors, while he had thousands secretly hidden in the surrounding trees, ready to launch an insurrection. When Irrv handed Kloff the Naval sword, the Culroon calmly stabbed Jeffers with it, killing him. At that signal, the Culroon warriors emerged and began attacking the Imperials, with their objective being to capture Irrv. Irrv ordered the stormtroopers to form a protective circle around him, which was weakened through Kloff's superior numbers and his warrior's power weapons. The surviving Imperials were saved through the intervention of Veers, who had been operating an All Terrain Armored Transport at the garrison and marched it toward the ceremony site. Grath rallied the stormtroopers to safety beneath the walker while the Culroon realized their blaster-fire was ineffective against it and fled. Once the Culroon had retreated, Veers looked down at Irrv and stated that the general owed him an apology. Irrv's skin reddened as he began to threaten Veers with a court-martial, but before he could finish his sentence, Grath shot and killed him. The stormtrooper commander stepped over Irrv's corpse and promoted Veers to the rank of major for his actions. Irrv's loyalty to the New Order guaranteed him a position of authority, although the role was beyond his skill. Even with Palpatine's permission to claim their planet through any means necessary, Irrv was willing to understand and work with the Culroon. Veers was irritated by Irrv's command, perceiving him as an "old school" officer and fool. Irrv lashed out when Veers criticized his ideas at a staff meeting and threatened the junior lieutenant with reassignment. While under attack, Irrv ordered the legion of stormtroopers to form a protective circle around him. Even after Veers saved Irrv and the other Imperials from the Culroon, the general visibly reddened and was ready to court-martial Veers until Grath's lethal intervention. During the ceremony on Culroon III, General Irrv and the other officers wore Imperial dress uniforms. General Irrv first appeared in the short story "The Promotion of Lieutenant Veers," published in West End Games' 1987 The Star Wars Sourcebook written by Bill Slavicsek and Curtis Smith. The thirty-first issue of De Agostini's The Official Star Wars Fact File magazine, written by Iain Lowson and published on July 31, 2002, stated that in the ceremony on Culroon III, Kloff was to give the Naval sword to Irrv in exchange for a ceremonial blaster, whereas in "The Promotion of Lieutenant Veers," Irrv hands the Naval sword to Kloff. The contradiction was repeated in the fourteenth issue of the revised run of The Official Star Wars Fact File, which was published on April 9, 2014 and also authored by Lowson. This article follow's the short story's version of events. *Star Wars: Rebellion *Galaxy Guide 3: The Empire Strikes Back *The Movie Trilogy Sourcebook *Galaxy Guide 3: The Empire Strikes Back, Second Edition *Star Wars Encyclopedia *A Guide to the Star Wars Universe, Third Edition, Revised and Expanded *The New Essential Guide to Characters *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Imperial Army generals of the Galactic Empire Category:Individuals of unspecified species Category:Individuals with he/him pronouns Category:Males