168836
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Star_Wars_(comic_strip)
Star Wars (comic strip)
11441

thumb|250px|Title from [[The Kashyyyk Depths]] Star Wars was a comic strip published in newspapers from 1979 to 1984 and distributed by the Los Angeles Times Syndicate and the Watertown Daily Times. The Star Wars Scrapbook is a department of the comic strip. The strip was originally planned to be written and drawn by Al Williamson, but after working on it for two weeks, the work was scrapped. Russ Manning wrote and drew the published strip until poor health forced him to retire from it. Russ Helm took over writing duties with Princess Leia, Imperial Servant, followed later by Archie Goodwin with an adaptation of the novel Han Solo at Stars' End. Williamson joined Goodwin for the next story, The Bounty Hunter of Ord Mantell, and their partnership continued until the final strip, published in 1984. As the strip was being published, The Official Star Wars Comic Strip Contest was held, with a deadline of Halloween 1979. The first five story arcs were among the few works licensed by the short-lived Lucasfilm subsidiary Black Falcon. Among the newspapers the Los Angeles Times Syndicate distributed the comic to was Singapore's The Straits Times. Decades later, Dark Horse Comics edited, colored, and reprinted most of these stories in two comic-book series: Goodwin and Williamson's strips in Classic Star Wars, and Helm and Manning's in Classic Star Wars: The Early Adventures. These comics did not include Planet of Kadril or the Sunday strips. Later, Han Solo at Stars' End was reprinted under the Classic Star Wars title, as was the Sunday strip The Constancia Affair. In 2005, StarWars.com's Hyperspace began publishing the newspaper strips alongside all-new stories. All of Manning's daily strips were included, as were most of Goodwin's. According to the Star Wars Insider magazine's Special Edition 2012 article "The Empire Strips Back," Dark Horse Comics planned to collect and anthologize these comics. The comic strips later got anthologized in the form of the Epic Collection (which dealt with the comic-book reprints) as well as three hardcover volumes by IDW Publishing. *"The Constancia Affair", by Russ Manning (Reprinted as Star Wars Special: The Constancia Affair) *"Gambler's World", by Russ Manning (Reprinted in Classic Star Wars: The Early Adventures 1, 2, and 3) *"The Kashyyyk Depths", by Russ Manning (The only strip not reprinted in a non-collection) *"Tatooine Sojourn", by Russ Manning and Steve Gerber (Reprinted in Classic Star Wars: The Early Adventures 4) *"Princess Leia, Imperial Servant", by Russ Helm and Russ Manning (Reprinted in Classic Star Wars: The Early Adventures 5) *"The Second Kessel Run", by Russ Helm and Russ Manning (Reprinted in Classic Star Wars: The Early Adventures 6) *"Bring Me the Children", by Russ Manning (Reprinted in Classic Star Wars: The Early Adventures 7) *"As Long As We Live...", by Russ Manning (Reprinted in Classic Star Wars: The Early Adventures 8) *"The Frozen World of Ota", by Russ Manning (Reprinted in Classic Star Wars: The Early Adventures 9) *"Planet of Kadril", by Russ Helm and Alfredo Alcala (Reprinted as a webstrip on StarWars.com) *Han Solo at Stars' End, by Brian Daley, adapted by Archie Goodwin and Alfredo Alcala (Reprinted as Classic Star Wars: Han Solo at Stars' End) *"The Bounty Hunter of Ord Mantell", by Archie Goodwin and Al Williamson (Reprinted as Classic Star Wars 1 and 2) *"Darth Vader Strikes", by Archie Goodwin and Al Williamson (Reprinted in Classic Star Wars 2, 3, and 4) *"The Serpent Masters", by Archie Goodwin and Al Williamson (Reprinted in Classic Star Wars 4, 5, and 6) *"Deadly Reunion", by Archie Goodwin and Al Williamson (Reprinted in Classic Star Wars 6 and 7) *"Traitor's Gambit", by Archie Goodwin and Al Williamson (Reprinted in Classic Star Wars 7 and 8) *"The Night Beast", by Archie Goodwin and Al Williamson (Reprinted in Classic Star Wars 8, 9, and 10) *"The Return of Ben Kenobi", by Archie Goodwin and Al Williamson (Reprinted in Classic Star Wars 10 and 11) *"The Power Gem", by Archie Goodwin and Al Williamson (Reprinted in Classic Star Wars 11 and 12) *"Iceworld", by Archie Goodwin and Al Williamson (Reprinted in Classic Star Wars 12 and 13) *"It's a Trap", by Archie Goodwin and Al Williamson (Reprinted in Classic Star Wars 13 and 14) *"Doom Mission", by Archie Goodwin and Al Williamson (Reprinted in Classic Star Wars 14 and 15) *"Race for Survival", by Archie Goodwin and Al Williamson (Reprinted in Classic Star Wars 16 and 17) *"The Paradise Detour", by Archie Goodwin and Al Williamson (Reprinted in Classic Star Wars 17 and 18) *"A New Beginning", by Archie Goodwin and Al Williamson (Reprinted in Classic Star Wars 18, 19, and 20) *"Showdown", by Archie Goodwin and Al Williamson (Reprinted in Classic Star Wars 20) *"The Final Trap", by Archie Goodwin and Al Williamson (Reprinted in Classic Star Wars 20)