169730
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Unidentified_Jawa_Hero
Unidentified Jawa Hero
4524

This "Jawa Hero" was a Jawa who greatly endangered the economy of its clan, but eventually managed to save it as it appropriated some valuable Imperial material. The Jawa suffered great humiliation, as it failed to properly repair a R5 unit and subsequently destroyed its clan's entire stock of droids in a fit of rage and frustration. Because of the Jawa's actions, the clan had to disappoint a family of Moisture farmers who were interested in purchasing some droids. The Jawa received a severe scolding from the clan leader and, deeply ashamed, subsequently went into somewhat of a depression. Some time after this event, the Jawa hesitantly participated in a expedition, lead by a particularly determined Jawa during which the Jawas came across a downed X-wing. The group of Jawas witnessed Imperial stormtroopers kill the pilot of the starfighter. When the Imperials left, the Jawas decided to take advantage of the situation and appropriate the wrecked starfighter, which the stormtroopers had left behind. thumb|left|The Jawa Hero is depressed The leader of the Jawa clan figured that, if they repaired the fighter, the clan would be able to sell it and profit greatly, and decided to give the depressed Jawa a chance of redemption, ordering it to repair the starfighter. The Jawa, who had been in a state of shock after seeing the Rebel being killed, went to work as soon as the wrecked fighter was transported back to the clan's sandcrawler. Assisted by its R5 unit, the Jawa worked hard to repair the fighter and succeeded. The Jawa happily informed the clan leader about his success, only to learn that the leader was not satisfied. While the Jawa had been working on the X-wing, the rest of the clan had found out that a trio of salvagers had salvaged an intact TIE advanced starfighter in the deserts of Tatooine. Speculating that it was Darth Vader's personal fighter, the clan leader was convinced that their acquired X-wing would be worth next to nothing compared to the TIE/LN starfighter. thumb|The Jawa Hero is frustrated with the malfunctioning [[Unidentified R5 unit (Jawas)|R5 unit]] The Jawa who had worked on the X-wing decided to do something about the situation, and planned to steal the TIE fighter, using the X-wing to tow it back to the sandcrawler. Assisted by its R5 unit, the Jawa successfully managed to steal the TIE fighter, snatching it off the salvager's speeder truck and towing it back to the sandcrawler. The Jawa wrecked the X-wing completely and damaged the sandcrawler in the process of landing. However, the TIE fighter was intact, and the Jawa was celebrated as a hero by the clan for bravely acquiring the TIE Advanced. This individual only appears in the story Oh!! Jawajawa, published in Star Wars Manga: Silver issue of Tokyopop's Star Wars Manga. Originally published in Japan, those stories were considered to be of "fuzzy" continuity by Lucasfilm. Since then, they have been republished in English in the United Kingdom under Infinities label, which established the material in them as non-canonical. Category:Individuals of unspecified gender Category:Jawas