170092
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Blue_Squadron_(Bothan)
Blue Squadron (Bothan)
5037

Blue Squadron, also known as Blue Squad, was a squadron of 24Star Wars Encyclopedia inexperienced Bothan starfighter pilots and gunners who flew BTL-S3 Y-wing starfighters in support of the Bothan Spynet's efforts to aid the Rebel Alliance. The designations and color name of the unit were applied by Luke Skywalker. The Bothan pilots who would operate as Blue Squadron had less than a hundred hours of flight time in their Y-wings and were fair shots, according to Koth Melan. The Bothan pilots of this unit were joined by human Rebel pilot Ace Azzameen, selected to fill an opening in the squadron due to his exemplary record.Star Wars: X-Wing Alliance Under the command of Rogue Leader Commander Luke Skywalker in his T-65 X-wing starfighter, Blue Squadron flew cover for a data-raid on the Imperial armed freighter Suprosa by a Bothan team boarding via the mercenary Dash Rendar's freighter, the Outrider, to capture a supercomputer later revealed to hold the plans of the second Death Star. During the battle, the Suprosa launched a single diamond boron missile at the incoming fighters. Despite the best efforts of Rendar to defeat the missile, it successfully detonated in the midst of the Blue Squadron formation, obliterating four craft and their crews in an instant. Through the combined efforts of Skywalker and Azzameen, the freighter was disabled. Once the ship had been surrendered and the supercomputer obtained, the surviving squadron members traveled to Kothlis, delivering the data to the expert slicers of the Spynet. Six fighters, twelve Bothans in total, were destroyed in the raid. *Blue Two - Unknown pilot&dagger; / gunner&dagger; *Blue Four - Unknown pilot&dagger; / gunner&dagger; *Blue Six - Ace Azzameen Although the novel Shadows of the Empire implies that Blue Squadron consists entirely of Bothans, the video game Star Wars: X-Wing Alliance features its protagonist, the human Ace Azzameen, as Blue Six. *Star Wars: X-Wing Alliance *Star Wars: Shadows of the Empire novel *The Secrets of Star Wars: Shadows of the Empire |cards= }} *Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Alliance to Restore the Republic starfighter squadrons Category:Bothan organizations