170294
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Battle_of_Kuat_(Second_Galactic_Civil_War)
Battle of Kuat (Second Galactic Civil War)
6046

The Battle of Kuat was fought in 40 ABY between members of the Galactic Alliance Fifth Fleet commanded by Jacen Solo and the Confederation. Jacen Solo had a vision that a decisive battle was going to be fought at Kuat and if the Confederation were to win, they would immediately head for Coruscant. The battle had lasted for a week and was fairly evenly matched. Jacen needed the Jedi and the Hapan Home Fleet to arrive and turn the tide of the battle in his favor. The plan was for his uncle, Luke Skywalker, and other Jedi to take a wing of StealthX craft and make an attack run through the Corellian ships utilizing Jedi shadow bombs, reloading at the Megador before attacking the Bothan fleet, and repeating until the Confederation fleet collapsed. As the battle was commencing, Ben Skywalker, Luke's son and Jacen's cousin, was meeting with deposed Chief of State Cal Omas on Coruscant. After discussing the possibility of Jacen's involvement in the recent death of Ben's mother, Mara, Omas killed himself, making it look as if Ben had assassinated him. Luke, despite his own grief over the death of his wife, was initially prepared to aid Jacen in fighting the Confederation. However, it was then that news of Omas's death reached the Jedi. Luke, infuriated, confronted Jacen in the latter's personal quarters. After a tense conversation concerning Jacen's occupation of the Jedi Academy on Ossus and Ben, Luke announced his withdrawal of support for Jacen. He and the Jedi left the battle, leaving Jacen facing much worse odds. Jacen turned the Hapan Home Fleet back to Hapes, unwilling to risk the reign of his lover, Queen Mother Tenel Ka Djo. With the Jedi desertion, the battled turned into a protracted bloodbath with high casualties on both sides. Outraged at this betrayal, Jacen was struck with a sudden brainstorm. Both the Galactic Federation of Free Alliances and the Confederation were courting Kashyyyk in earnest - whomsoever could convince the Wookiees to add their sizable fleet to their own would certainly defeat the other. He took the Anakin Solo to Kashyyyk and decided to attack the planet thus drawing off the Confederate attack on Kuat. *Legacy of the Force: Inferno *Legacy of the Force: Fury *Fate of the Jedi: Outcast *Fate of the Jedi: Backlash *The Essential Atlas *The Essential Guide to Warfare Category:Battles of Kuat Category:Battles of the Second Galactic Civil War