170262
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Mors_Odrion
Mors Odrion
3871

Mors Odrion was a male Human diplomat who worked for the Alliance to Restore the Republic's Diplomatic Corps. Along with the Mon Calamari Rekara, he investigated the planet Sedri during the Galactic Civil War, where he was captured by the Sedrian bishop of war, Karak. Mors Odrian and his retainer, the Mon Calamari Rekara, served the Alliance to Restore the Republic during the Galactic Civil War. They recruited and worked to secure supplies for the growing Rebellion. During this work, Odrion and Rekara began to hear rumors of a new Imperial garrison that had been established on a strange waterworld. Investigating further, Odrion decided to get more directly involved in the war effort; along with Rekara, he set course for the planet Sedri. Arriving at Sedri despite the warnings coming from the starship's navigation computer, Odrion and Rekara found a planet glowing with seemingly golden seas. Hiding their vessel in a rocky cove, Odrion and Rekara searched for the source of the golden light. The source faded before they could find it, and the pair were captured by a group of Sedrians, the world's native sentient species. The leader of the renegades, Karak, used a piece of coral to steal information from Odrion's mind, including information on the Rebellion, the Empire, and Odrion's mission to Sedri. Odrion was kept under constant guard during his incarceration. Rekara managed to escape her incarceration, but Karak had plans for Odrion, intending to use him as a bargaining chip when dealing with the Empire. In exchange for Imperial assistance in securing the sun caves and the Golden Sun, Karak promised to hand Odrion over to Imperial Commander Aban once the power was his. Odrion was taken by Karak to Fitsay during the attack on the city. Karak was eventually defeated by a team of Alliance agents sent to rescue Odrion. With the Imperial threat lessened and Karak arrested, Odrion agreed to remain on Sedri as a representative of the Alliance. Mors Odrion was young and impetuous, and possessed a daring and adventurous spirit. *Battle for the Golden Sun *Secrets of the Sisar Run *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Alliance to Restore the Republic members Category:Diplomats Category:Humans Category:Males