173240
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Knights%27_Billet
Knights' Billet
3941

The Knights' Billet was a set of dormitories located in the accommodation sector of the Temple of the New Jedi Order. Upon the defeat of the Yuuzhan Vong, the Galactic Alliance Chief of State Cal Omas commissioned the building of a new Jedi Temple for the reformed Order to replace the structure originally routed by the Galactic Empire. Built by the Reconstruction Authority, the new Temple's interior was constructed using old blueprints salvaged during the Galactic Civil War. The Knights' Billet was completed along with the rest of the Temple, though it is unknown if it was a new addition or a reconstruction. During the Dark Nest Crisis, the majority of the Order's Jedi Knights were away from the Temple, on missions tracking pirates or working with Admiral Nek Bwua'tu in the Utegetu Nebula, leaving the Billet nearly deserted. Recently declared Grand Master Luke Skywalker ordered Knights Lowbacca, Tesar Sebatyne, and Tahiri Veila to meet him and Master Cilghal in the Billet to discuss their suspected involvement in a security breach between the Order and Bornaryn Trading. Finding the Wookiee and Barabel Jedi waiting in the conversation salon, the Grand master allowed Jedi Veila to continue her lightsaber training in the exercise pen. Veila eventually entered the room to step into a argument between the Masters and the Knights. Skywalker asserted that the Knights were still under the influence of UnuThul of the Killiks and were leaking Order secrets in an attempt to influence the High Council's decision to make a preemptive strike on the Chiss and Killik forces. After constant deflecting and pointless accusations, Skywalker deemed the Jedi as Killik Joiners and sent them on meditative retreat to Dagobah; stating that failure to remain on Dagobah would be seen as their resignation. Located within the Temple's accommodation sector, the Billet was made up of several private sleeping chambers for use by the Order's many Jedi Knights. This tenth floor accommodation suite was complimented by a conversation salon, snack galley, and exercise pen. The salon contained several tables and chairs which could be utilized by Knights engaged in deep, thoughtful discussion about politics or the Force. The exercise pen, located at the end of the main hallway, had a transparisteel window giving those in the hall a view of those training inside. *Dark Nest III: The Swarm War Category:New Jedi Temple locations Category:Rooms