173293
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Unidentified_stalk-eyed_species
Unidentified stalk-eyed species
5396

The stalk-eyed species was a sentient species that lived throughout the galaxy. thumb|left|upright|Two members in a cantina This alien species was reptilian in appearance, and appeared to average around 0.6 meters. They had distinctive stalk-mounted eyes, which appeared to be flexible and capable of looking in two directions at once. They also had a large underbite, with a number of small sharp teeth jutting up from their lower jaw. Most members of the species had four arms, although it appears some may have had only two.Operation: Elrood Each of their arms ended in three-fingered hands with an opposable thumb, and their feet similarly had three toes. thumb|right|Two members on Tresidiss Two members of this species worked with the Hethas criminal mastermind Gornt Seron, who was based on the planet Korbin. These two had direct contact with Seron, and appeared to be on reasonably familiar terms with him. Some other members of the species lived on the planet Tresidiss, notorious for its gambling establishments run by Herglic criminal syndicates, in which they appeared to be involved.Gundark's Fantastic Technology: Personal Gear Other members of the species also lived on Derilyn in the Elrood sector. This species has appeared as background individuals in at least five illustrations by Mike Vilardi for the West End Games roleplaying game sourcebooks.Star Wars: The Roleplaying Game, Second EditionGalaxy Guide 11: Criminal Organizations They appear similar in form to the Glurrgs of Star Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds.Star Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds In 2011, Vilardi was prompted by a fan to name this species, and he dubbed them "seidaots" (pronounced "say-day-ahts"), or "seidaotians." In 2025, Keeper of the Holocron Leland Chee stated that these names were never made official and that as of December 1, 2025, the species still did not have a name within the Holocron continuity database. Chee also stated that he also considered the possibility that, due to their differing numbers of limbs, they were actually two separate species altogether. *Operation: Elrood right|thumb|A member walking by an [[Imperial Security Bureau/Legends|ISB terminal]] *Star Wars: The Roleplaying Game, Second Edition *Wanted by Cracken *Galaxy Guide 11: Criminal Organizations *Gundark's Fantastic Technology: Personal Gear Category:Sentient species