173320
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/RGL-80_electronet_grenade
RGL-80 electronet grenade
4575

The RGL-80 electronet grenade, also known as an electronet grenade was a type of grenade designed by Golan Arms to stun and capture targets. The RGL-80 electronet grenade was manufactured by Golan Arms. An electronet was loaded into the warhead of a grenade-style canister round and fired from any standard grenade launcher, or a speciality net launcher like Golan's RGL-80A electronet grenade launcher.The Essential Guide to Weapons and Technology Once fired, the grenade trailed a control wire attached to a control panel affixed to the underside of the launcher. Once triggered by the operator, the warhead would detonate, discharging the outer casing and allowing the net to expand to its full, two-meter diameter. Once the net enveloped a target&mdash;commonly a living being&mdash;they would be ensnared. The operator of the launcher could then send a variable electrical charge through the net, shocking the trapped target. As the charge that could be put through the net was adjustable, the target could be stunned, or even killed in extreme circumstances. A single electronet grenade weighed five kilograms and a magazine of five of them cost 2,000 credits. The RGL-80 electronet grenade had a maximum deployable range of five hundred meters. The electronet grenade was developed by the company Golan Arms. In the days that followed the Battle of Yavin, it was hard to obtain, but it did find some use between bounty hunters who wanted to capture fugitive prey. One bounty hunter who employed this weapon was Garim Ayrvn. Another was Remel Fud, who relied heavily on his technology to bring down his targets. The RGL-80 electronet grenade was first mentioned in 1994's Galaxy Guide 10: Bounty Hunters, written for West End Games' Star Wars: The Roleplaying Game. *Star Wars (1977) 16 *Galaxy Guide 10: Bounty Hunters *Galladinium's Fantastic Technology *Gundark's Fantastic Technology: Personal Gear *The Essential Guide to Weapons and Technology *Scum and Villainy Category:Electrical weaponry Category:Golan Arms products Category:Grenades Category:Stun weaponry