173565
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Leeper
Leeper
3765

Leeper was Bama Vook's LE-PR34 navigator droid. Leeper accompanied Bama as co-pilot of his ship, the Metron Burner—a Corellian YT-1300 freighter. The droid had an endearing habit of properly identifying and naming all machinery that he came across. This odd obsession came into providential use when he spotted X-10D draft droids used by Bartokk assassins in a plot masterminded by Groodo the Hutt to destroy the Corulag Academy, thus aiding the plot's foil by the Jedi team of Noro Zak, Vel Ardox, Obi-Wan Kenobi, Qui-Gon Jinn, Adi Gallia, Yoda and Mace Windu. Bama, a Talz test-pilot for Trinkatta Starships of Esseles, became unwittingly entangled in separate schemes hatched by the Trade Federation and the Bartokks. After a hyperdrive prototype engine was delivered to Trinkatta by Groodo the Hutt—on behalf of the Trade Federation for its Darth Sidious-inspired scheme to overtake the strategic cross-roads planet Brentaal and thereby rule two major galactic trade routes, the Perlemian and the Hydian—Groodo turned on the Neimoidians when they refused to pay him. The Hutt did this by hiring the Outer Rim's infamous insectoid assassins to steal 50 of Trinkatta's Vulture-class droid starfighters—at least some of which had already been modified and equipped with Groodo's illegal hyperdrive prototype. By creating an alliance with the Bartokk Queen and her minions, Groodo hoped not only to ruin the Federation's business plans, but also to wreak vengeance upon the Jedi, who had not admitted his Force-sensitive son Boonda to the Academy on Corulag. After meeting up with Jedi Padawan Obi-Wan Kenobi and his master Qui-Gon Jinn, Leeper helped rescue Bama on Esseles. He then aided the Jedi in defeating, at a local spaceport, a Bartokk squad that had kidnapped Bama's son, Chup-Chup. The Talz pilot and his navigator droid later accompanied the Jedi to Corulag and once again proved invaluable by alerting the Jedi, whose numbers now also included Jedi High Councilors Mace Windu and Yoda, of the Bartokk presence at Corulag Academy in Curamelle. The Hive-minded assassins, led by their Queen, were intent on using six hulking X10-D droids—three of which harbored plasma bombs—to blow up the academy before fleeing the capital city in their stolen SoroSuub space yacht', back to their unnamed hive-planet near the Corporate Sector. *Episode I Adventures 2: The Bartokk Assassins *Episode I Adventures 3: The Fury of Darth Maul *Episode I Adventures 4: Jedi Emergency Category:LE-PR34 navigator droids