173910
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Z2-1B
Z2-1B
3215

Z2-1B was a 2-1B surgical droid that went rogue and adopted an independent agenda to create the ultimate droid. Also known as The Doctor by its creations, the droid was once a regular medical droid. This was until a lethal plague wiped out the entire population of the planet on which it was working on. Z2-1B started out working as a medical droid for a remote research unit on a sparsely inhabited planet. At some point a lethal plague with no cure and a resistance to standard treatment struck the world. The medical staff attempted to fight the disease while the planet was placed under quarantine, but they all succumbed to the plague before they could develop an effective cure. Left alone and forgotten, Z2-1B continued his research for some time. He determined that he couldn't discover a cure in a reasonable time frame on his own and began building droids by adapting his cybernetic implantation programming. While he was able to synthesize a cure with his new droid helpers, all sentient life on the planet had perished years earlier. With no one left to give him orders, Z2-1B began to ponder what his next logical move should be. His developing independent thought led him to determine that all of his past actions had been futile given the fragile nature of organic life. No matter what actions he took to help organics extend their lives, they would all ultimately die in the end. The droids would again find themselves looking for a new master while only needing light maintenance to prevent their demise. Z2-1B gained independent thought once he realized that humans and other organics were inferior to droids. He renamed himself "The Doctor" and set about finding ways to capitalize on the superiority of the mechanical form. His dream was to create a droid that could walk amongst organic creatures as an equal, but without any of the flaws of a living body. He began his quest to create the ultimate droid by using his knowledge of prosthetics to upgrade and experiment on his droid helpers. This resulted in the development of droids with realistic synthetic hands, limbs, or partial craniums of numerous species. *Ultimate Adversaries Category:2-1B surgical droids Category:Droids with masculine programming