174121
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Class_VI_automated_laser_projector
Class VI automated laser projector
4146

The BlasTech Class VI automated laser projector was an automated laser trap used by the Empire in the detention blocks of the first Death Star. The Class VI automated laser projector was a wall mounted device that was comprised of a small blaster cannon, a control computer, and a sensor suite. The blaster cannon could be controlled manually by an operator, or by the computer. The integrated sensors were capable of tracking up to two dozen separate targets. The blaster cannon was capable of rotating forty-five degrees in any direction and had the same stopping power as a blaster rifle bolt. The Class VI also had a setting to fire high-energy stun blasts. Internal power cells gave the weapon enough ammunition for fifty shots, on it could wired into a power generator for unlimited capacity. The laser trap had an optimum range of ten meters, and a maximum range of twenty-five meters. The Class VI had a scanner that read coded identification chips which allowed access to restricted areas for authorized personnel. Individuals entering a secure area were scanned, and the laser projector could alert nearby control officers and security guards to unauthorized personnel. Class VI automated laser projectors were a common security feature used throughout the Galactic Empire, usually as part of a larger security system including force fields, security cameras, and weapon detectors. They were common sights at security checkpoints, labor camps, and prisons. Multiple laser projectors were used for increased coverage, and were either wall-mounted, installed on rotating turrets that were suspended from the ceiling, or hidden behind retractable panels. They were usually linked to security cameras like the 57C holocam to provide additional targeting data to the projector's computer. The Empire installed several Class VI automated laser projectors throughout Detention Block AA-23 aboard the DS-1 Orbital Battle Station. This weapon has a remarkable similarity to trip mines. This was most likely the inspiration for the design of them. *The Essential Guide to Weapons and Technology *Fly Casual Category:BlasTech Industries products Category:Laser weaponry