174438
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Destruction_of_the_Scythe_convoy
Destruction of the Scythe convoy
5216

The Destruction of the Scythe convoy was a hit and fade attack that was conducted on an Imperial convoy by the Alliance to Restore the Republic that took place in 3 ABY. Following the Alliance's defeat at Hoth, the Defiance Task Force led by Admiral Nammo needed to reach the rest of the Alliance fleet without being detected or destroyed by the Corrupter Task Force. As a first step, Nammo planned to destroy an Imperial supply convoy led by the Strike-class medium cruiser Scythe so the Empire's forces would be stretched thin by the movements of the Defiance and her task force. thumb|left|150px|TIEs attempt to stop the Y-wing assault. Jumping through hyperspace to the convoy's last known location, the BTL Y-wing starfighters of Green Group moved to attack the convoy ships, with four of Red Group's T-65 X-wing starfighter pilots, including Ace Azzameen, as escorts. In two waves, six TIE/LN starfighters were quickly launched from the Scythe with the Y-wings as their targets, but were engaged by Red Group, allowing Green Group to devastate the convoy with a missile barrage, disabling most of its ships and leaving the rest in preparations to flee into hyperspace. In response, the Scythe deployed its remaining six TIE fighters in three waves, destroying a single Y-wing before being eliminated by Red Group. With the Strike cruiser damaged and on the run, the convoy disintegrated and the Rebels returned to the Defiance. The attack on the convoy resulted in a greater local Imperial focus on protecting convoys and remote units rather than actively searching for the Rebels. Admiral Nammo, meanwhile, organized a recon mission to determine what exactly the Defiance group was up against. While the destruction of the convoy is assured, the Scythe itself can either survive, be driven off, or be destroyed depending on player actions. *Star Wars: X-Wing Alliance *Star Wars: X-Wing Alliance: Prima's Official Strategy Guide Category:Battles of the Galactic Civil War