174449
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Battle_of_Hurrim_Base
Battle of Hurrim Base
6904

The Battle of Hurrim Base was a conflict between the Galactic Empire, the Hurrim, and the Alliance to Restore the Republic that took place in 4 ABY. It resulted in the destruction of both the Corrupter and Hurrim Base. In the months preceding the Battle of Endor, the Hurrim were removed from Dunari's trading empire following an unprovoked attack on a civilian convoy the Rebel Alliance was raiding. The Hurrim responded by capturing many of Dunari's staff members and imprisoning them on the Hurrim Base. They also captured several Alliance cargo vessels, including six MB-C1 medium transports under the group name Vemmer. The Hurrim's previous and fraudulent alliance with the Rebels threatened to turn the galaxy against the Rebel Alliance, so the Rebels and Dunari became determined to destroy the Hurrim before they could inflict further damage. The Hurrim Base remained hidden from Rebel eyes before being uncovered by Dunari and Alliance Intelligence in a deep space asteroid belt, prompting a massive strike on the station. The Rebel Nebulon-B frigate Jericho and a large force of Alliance starfighters including Ace Azzameen assaulted the Hurrim Base and proceeded to destroy its starfighter, static, and capital ship defenses. The Hurrim Base was defended by waves of Preybird-class starfighters, Asteroid Laser Batteries, Asteroid Warhead Launchers, and two Marauder-class corvettes, Broadside and Plank. Despite these sizeable defenses, the Rebels quickly destroyed all of these vessels and most of the starfighters, sustaining only minor losses. The Hurrim Base was then disabled by Alliance B-wings, and several transports designated Storm Unit boarded the platform and the Alliance transports. They powered the captured transports and saved Dunari's entire staff, then they evacuated to the Jericho. However, Imperial Admiral Garreth Holtz arrived in the Imperial-class Star Destroyer Corrupter to repulse the Rebel attack and save their Hurrim allies. Dunari's forces showed up on the Dreadnaught Longshot and together, the Rebels and Dunari destroyed the Corrupter. This resulted in the presumed death of Admiral Holtz. The Alliance then captured Golov Nakhym, who tried to escape on the shuttle Lendros. After the hostages were saved, the defenseless Hurrim Base was destroyed, finally ending the treachery of the Hurrim. The destruction of the Hurrim Base effectively destroyed the Hurrim, and the last remnants of the pirate force sank into obscurity. The loss of the Corrupter and its commander Admiral Holtz proved an embarrassing loss for the Galactic Empire. The success of the battle ensured the security of the badly-shaken alliance between Dunari and the Rebels, and restored Galactic confidence in the Alliance. The destruction of the Hurrim ensured that the cargo pact between Dunari and the Rebels would resume peacefully, ensuring the Alliance's readiness for the fight at Endor. *Star Wars: X-Wing Alliance *Star Wars: X-Wing Alliance: Prima's Official Strategy Guide Category:Battles in the Danjar sector Category:Battles of the Galactic Civil War