175638
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/FastTurn-3_Hydrospanner
FastTurn-3 Hydrospanner
3316

The FastTurn-3 Hydrospanner was a model of hydrospanner that was manufactured by Regallis Engineering. The FastTurn-3 was a model of hydrospanner manufactured by Regallis Engineering. It employed a hydraulic compression cylinder that mechanicallyThe New Essential Guide to Weapons and Technology increased the tool's torque, allowing the user to fasten bolts without exerting themselves too much. The socket was hinged, and able to rotate one hundred and eighty degrees in any direction, allowing the user to get the tool into tight spaces and angles. The socket itself was capable of fitting nuts and fasteners as small as two millimeters, with special attachments allowing the tool to fit over larger size fasteners, such as fusion bolts which could be up to twenty-five centimeters in diameter. Standard drive bits could be inserted into the FastTurn-3's rotary driver, and the torque generated by the tool was capable of driving screws and bolts securely into materials duraplast and transparisteel. A universal drive bit could fit around any screw, bolt, or fastener by using seventy retracting durasteel pins. A tiny fusioncutter was attached to the hydrospanner, and was used to cut around bolts, removing molecular adhesives and fusion welds prior to the removal of the bolts. A thirty centimeter long extension cable, which accepted standard drive bits and sockets, could be fitted to the FastTurn-3 for working inside machinery. The cable was capable of being threaded around obstructions, and was fitted with a vid receptor line that relayed a real-time video feed to a connected datapad, allowing the user to guide it through tight confines and operate it. Space drive bits could be stored in the shaft of the FastTurn-3, accessed through a panel at the bottom of the tool. Next to the access panel was a dataport. Internal power cells were located just behind the hydraulic compression cylinder. *The Essential Guide to Weapons and Technology *The New Essential Guide to Weapons and Technology Category:Hydrospanners Category:Regallis Engineering products Category:Wrenches