175602
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Santor
Santor
4784

Santor was a diplomat from the planet Shawken, who helped lead Shawken's temporary government after the Galactic Empire abandoned the world following the Battle of Endor. In 4 ABY, Santor hosted a delegation from the Alliance of Free Planets led by Jedi Knight Luke Skywalker. At Skywalker's entreaty, Santor represented his homeworld at the First Conference of Free Peoples on Endor. A Human male, Santor was a native of the planet Shawken, home to one of the oldest-known civilizations in the galaxy. A prominent politician on his homeworld, Santor became part of Shawken's ruling council after Imperial forces fled the world in 4 ABY, not long after the Empire's climactic defeat at Endor. He then served as the leader of a delegation that met with a group of diplomats from the newly formed Alliance of Free Planets, who traveled to Shawken in order to invite local leaders to the upcoming First Conference of Free Peoples. Santor welcomed the diplomats, led by Jedi Knight and Rebel hero Luke Skywalker, into his home, where Santor was entreated to personally represent Shawken. However, a friendly meeting was soon interrupted by an urgent message: several of Skywalker's traveling companions, Rik Duel, Dani and Chihdo, had become trapped while exploring Shawken's ancient catacombs and inadvertently activated the Shawken Device, a long-forgotten superweapon purported to have the power to destroy the universe. Santor led Skywalker and his retinue to the ruins, where the Iskalonian Kiro was able to shut off the superweapon before its effects, if any, were loosed upon the galaxy. After the crisis was resolved, Santor personally represented Shawken at the First Conference of Free Peoples on Endor, listening to speeches from Alliance leaders Mon Mothma and Gial Ackbar, among others.Star Wars (1977) 90 A skilled diplomat, Santor was considered by his fellows to be the wisest and best among the Shawkenese government, and was a gracious and personable host to visiting dignitaries. Although personally opposed to Imperial rule, Santor took the long view of political power&mdash;Shawken's civilization was so ancient, he reasoned, that it would long outlive the Empire and likely whatever came after. Santor was passionate about his homeworld, and very knowledgeable about its long and storied history. Santor first appeared in Star Wars 87, written by Mary Jo Duffy, illustrated by Tom Palmer and released in 1984. *Star Wars (1977) 87 *Star Wars (1977) 90 Category:Diplomats Category:Humans Category:Males Category:Shawkenese