176315
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Hwruarca
Hwruarca
4239

Hwruarca was a female Wookiee member of the Shoartu tribe of the Kerritamba Village on the planet Kashyyyk during the time of the Galactic Civil War. By the time following the Battle of Yavin in 0 BBY, she and Rhylis worked as arena guards at the Kerritamba Village Arena. A female Wookiee by the name of Hwruarca lived during the time of the Galactic Civil War between the Galactic Empire and the Alliance to Restore the Republic. She resided on the planet Kashyyyk among her fellow Wookiees in the Shoartu tribe of the Kerritamba Village. By the time following the Battle of Yavin in 0 BBY,The New Essential Chronology she and a fellow male Wookiee by the name of Rhylis had been assigned the role of arena guards, tasked with the responsibility of guarding the Kerritamba Village Arena. Hwruarca guarded the entrance to the arena, while Rhylis guarded the exit. Hwruarca allowed at least one contestant to enter the arena, in order to face Shoartu Arena Champion Wirartu in combat. During her time as an arena guard, Hwruarca wore a brown and gray colored Wookiee battle padding. Hwruarca was a non-player character in Star Wars Galaxies: Rage of the Wookiees, a 2005 expansion pack to Star Wars Galaxies: An Empire Divided, a massively multiplayer online role-playing game developed by Sony Online Entertainment and published by LucasArts, prior to its closure on December 15, 2011. Hwruarca was featured in a quest titled "Arena Challenge: Face Wirartu," in which players were tasked with defeating Wirartu in combat. In order to do so, players had to speak with Hwruarca to enter the arena. In the game's directory tree files and source data, Hwruarca's name is listed as Hwroarca (an Arena Guardian).Star Wars Galaxies: Rage of the Wookiees directory tree files and source data However, this alternative name was not used in the game, and is therefore considered non-canon in Star Wars Legends. *Star Wars Galaxies: Rage of the Wookiees Category:Females Category:Guards Category:Kashyyyk residents Category:Wookiees