176555
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Tyberious_Institute_of_Xenobiology
Tyberious Institute of Xenobiology
4210

The Tyberious Institute of Xenobiology was an institute from which a group of researchers at one point visited the celestial body Randorn 2. There, the xenobiologists discovered in swamps millennia-old shells of the local ibliton mollusk. The researchers were also present during an ibliton's attack on a local Mizx village, where they defended the locals and eventually killed the creature. The Tyberious Institute of Xenobiology was an institution that shared its name with the Inner Rim's Tyberious system. thumb|right|250px|Researchers from the Tyberious Institute of Xenobiology encountered an ibliton (pictured) on Randorn 2. Researchers from the xenobiology institute, including Meslinger, at some point visited the Outer Rim Territories &mdash; Based on corresponding data for Randorn system celestial body Randorn 2, which was home to the large, predatory ibliton mollusk. There, the xenobiologists dredged from swamps ibliton shells that were several thousands of years old. At one point, an ibliton attacked a village of Randorn 2's native Mizx species while the researchers were present. During the incident, Meslinger witnessed the creature demolishing a local cottage in order to reach its inhabitants. Ultimately, the xenobiologists were able to kill the ibliton, in the process saving the lives of all but one of the villagers. Meslinger was also later present for the funeral of the killed Mizx. At some point by the reign of the Galactic Empire, an entry of a holobrochure for the Tagge Holographic Museum of the planet Chandrila dedicated to the ibliton noted the visit of the researchers of the Tyberious Institute of Xenobiology to Randorn 2. The Tyberious Institute of Xenobiology was created by Phil Brucato for the 1994 sourcebook Creatures of the Galaxy, published by West End Games for use with Star Wars: The Roleplaying Game. *Creatures of the Galaxy Category:Educational and scientific institutes