177142
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/H2
H2
4312

H2 was a pilot droid for Dezono Qua, an Esseles native and sadistic cannibal. After Jedi Master Dass Jennir killed Qua, he took the droid for himself. Although willing to do Jennir's every bidding in their adventures in the coming months, H2 was outwardly dissatisfied with his new master's behavior, often spouting sarcastic remarks on Jennir's altruistic decisions and referring to him as "Man-who-killed-my-master." During this time, H2 covertly assisted bounty hunter Falco Sang — hired by Qua's family — with tracking Jennir down, using his security channel to communicate with him. This secret exchange came to an end at Telerath when H2 was critically damaged while delivering news from the mob controlled town to Fish's hut. After Jennir's victory over the Slavers, Jennir sought to repair the droid. Possibly due to the usage of number five memory cable splicer instead of the required number sixDark Times—Out of the Wilderness 1 affecting his personality modulators, the droid's acidic sarcasm was replaced by a cheerful personality. Furthermore, it fully accepted Jennir as his Master, something possibly aided by the amnesia it also suffered in its new state. thumb|left|H2 saves [[Ember Chankeli on Prine.]] Four months after the institution of the Galactic Empire, Sang caught up with Jennir on the planet Prine, but was disarmed and defeated. When the bounty hunter revealed the truth to Jennir, H2 claimed ignorance. Soon afterwards, H2 took a blaster bolt fired by Sang's droid I-Z to save Jennir's protégé Ember Chankeli, and shut down, using his last words to apologize to his new master. Jennir was too preoccupied with Chankeli, whom he believed dead from the blast, to register the fact that H2 had been deactivated. When the Uhumele arrived on Prine, they rescued Jennir and Ember, as well as salvage H2.Dark Times—A Spark Remains 1 With Ratty's help, H2 was fully restored, albeit without the repair to the personality modulators on Jennir's request, and the new droid chose a pink color scheme for himself. *Dark Times 5 *Dark Times: Blue Harvest, Part 1 *Dark Times: Blue Harvest, Part 2 *Dark Times 13 *Dark Times 14 *Dark Times 15 *Dark Times 16 *Dark Times 17 *Dark Times—Out of the Wilderness 1 *Dark Times—Out of the Wilderness 2 *Dark Times—Out of the Wilderness 3 *Dark Times—Out of the Wilderness 4 *Dark Times—Out of the Wilderness 5 *Dark Times—A Spark Remains 1 *Dark Times—A Spark Remains 2 Category:Pilot and navigation droids