177967
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Legal_Authorization_for_Advanced_Confinement_Document
Legal Authorization for Advanced Confinement Document
3173

Legal Authorization for Advanced Confinement Documents, or LAACDocs, were orders that allowed Imperial officials to detain anyone they deemed worthy indefinitely, on a whim, to be held without charge or trial. thumb|left|200px|High Inquisitor Antinnis Tremayne (pictured) initiated the use of the LAACDocs, said to be backed by Darth Vader Legal Authorization for Advanced Confinement Documents, or simply LAACDocs were initated by High Inquisitor Antinnis Tremayne and were certified documents issued for the detention and confinement of particular individiduals wanted by the Empire. A LAACDoc authorized Imperial officials to employ such means that may be necessary to apprehend and detain a wanted individual for questioning by a High Inquisitor. If an Inquisitor seeked to interrogate an individual without raising undue alarm, a LAACDoc could be issued by an Imperial official such as a general, admiral, prefect, governor or Moff. By use of this tactic a citizen could be incommunicado until the arrivial of the Inquisitor requesting that person's custody. Thereafter, the "detainee" may be confined indefinitely. As no crime has been comitted, this procedure did not require the limited forms of judicial review remaining in the Empire. No evidence, proof of guilt needed to be presented. A LAACDoc target was never arrested. It is simply that, for reasons known exclusively to an Inquisitor, the Empire's interests required that appropriate measures be taken to securely confine said target so that when the time came a proper interrogation at the hands of an Inquisitor could be conducted. It was suggested the use of the LAACDoc was designed for suspects that had connections with the Jedi Order or had Force-related abilities themselves. Instead it proved to be a useful means by various Imperial officials to "set aside" personal opponents and suspected Rebel sympathizers without proof, on the suspicion that an Inquisitor may wish to question them in the future. LAACDocs did not have actual bounties associated with them, seeing as they were often used to detain suspects or individuals the Empire would consider a threat. However seeing as the wanted person held a special interest to the Empire a suitable "honorarium" would be paid to those who assisted in the apprehension and safe retrieval of LAACDoc detainees. A standard LAACDoc honorarium would bring in a sum of credits ranging from only a hundred to several thousand. The LAACDoc's was said to have been backed by Darth Vader. *Galaxy Guide 10: Bounty Hunters Category:Galactic Empire laws and acts Category:Law enforcement documents Category:Legal documents