179155
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Force_resistance
Force resistance
5029

Force resistance, sometimes called Force immunity, referred to several applications of the Force used to defend against Force powers. In its most basic definition, Force resistance referred to the resilience that a Force-user exhibited against Force abilities. Since this defense could be overcome by an opponent's superior willpower and mastery of the Force, the Jedi could learn to generate an aura providing additional protection against physical and mental Force powers. Such a technique was also known as Force resistance at the novice level, but mastery of it was ascribed the name Force immunity as its user could render some Force powers entirely inert. Specialized combat against the dark side was the domain of the Jedi Sentinels, and consequently, their training revolved heavily around developing Force immunity against it.Star Wars Roleplaying Game Saga Edition Core Rulebook The Force immunity of a Sentinel, once mastered, could afford them absolute, passive invulnerability to powers that induced fear, disorientation, loss of senses, and even outright paralysis. Such a feat was attained by cultivating a connection with the Force so unshakable that the Sentinel would virtually become one with it. One application of the shielding technique was to negate the effects of the dark side felt by light side users when they were nearby powerful dark side objects such as Lignan ore. By 5000 BBY, the technique was one of the most common skills that was taught to Jedi in the Jedi Order, and it had been passed down for many generations. Imar Deez taught this technique to Relin Druur, who in turn taught it to Drev Hassin and Marr Idi-Shael. Revan used similar powers to resist the Sith Emperor during his captivity. During his first mission to Felucia, Galen Marek fought a Force-using Felucian mounted on a Rancor who made use of this power, so the Sith simply attacked the Felucian by Force leaping at him to get close enough to use a lightsaber.Star Wars: The Force Unleashed (novelization) The Reborn sported this power as well.Star Wars: Jedi Knight II: Jedi OutcastStar Wars: Jedi Knight: Jedi AcademyStar Wars: Jedi Knight II: Jedi Outcast: Official Perfect GuideStar Wars: Jedi Knight: Jedi Academy: Prima's Official Strategy Guide *Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic *The Old Republic: Revan *Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic II: The Sith Lords *The Old Republic: The Third Lesson *Star Wars: The Old Republic *Star Wars: The Old Republic: Shadow of Revan *Star Wars: The Force Unleashed novelization (and unabridged audiobook) *Star Wars: Jedi Knight II: Jedi Outcast *Star Wars: Jedi Knight: Jedi Academy *Crosscurrent *Riptide *Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic: Prima's Official Strategy Guide *Star Wars: Jedi Knight: Jedi Outcast: Perfect Guide *Star Wars: Jedi Knight: Jedi Academy: Prima’s Official Strategy Guide Category:Control powers Category:Light side powers