179427
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Lillibanca
Lillibanca
5884

The Lillibanca was a cruiser that served in the Confederation Fleet in the aftermath of the Battle of Kashyyyk in 40 ABY during the Second Galactic Civil War between the Galactic Alliance and the Confederation. The ship took part in the firefighting efforts against the planetary firestorm raging across the planet Kashyyyk in the aftermath of the battle. During these firefighting efforts, the ship targeted a series of beacons on the planet with turbolaser blasts in order to ignite a controlled burn. The Lillibanca was a cruiser equipped with turbolaser batteries, communications equipment, and both sublight and hyperdrive engines. communications officer, responding to the Millennium Falcon|}} thumb|left|250px|The Lillibanca assisted in putting out the planetary firestorm on Kashyyyk. The Lillibanca served in the Confederation Fleet during the Second Galactic Civil War between the Galactic Alliance and the Confederation. The ship took part in the aftermath of the Battle of Kashyyyk, during which the Confederation forces attempted to seize the planet Kashyyyk from Galactic Alliance forces in 40 ABY.The Essential Reader's Companion places the events of Legacy of the Force: Fury, which include the aftermath of the Battle of Kashyyyk and the Lillibanca participation in it, in 40 ABY. The Lillibanca assisted in firefighting efforts against the planetary firestorm triggered by the bombardment of Kashyyyk by Galactic Alliance forces during the battle. While the Lillibanca sat in low orbit, Han Solo, a pilot who was assisting Galactic Alliance forces with firefighting efforts, contacted the crew of the ship via the Confederation communications frequency and instructed the crew of the cruiser to target a series of twenty beacons several kilometers apart in sequential order. The crew was to target the beacons, moving eastward with a series of turbolaser blasts in order to ignite a controlled burn. Once extinguished, the burn would leave only char behind, thus depriving the wildfire of flammable materials and containing it. During the operation, the crew of the Lillibanca nearly hit the Millennium Falcon, Solo's YT-1300 light freighter, with one of their turbolaser blasts as Solo maneuvered wildly in an attempt to throw the rogue Jedi Alema Rar, who had appeared on his ship as a Force phantom, off balance. The operation carried out by the Lillibanca proved successful, and Jagged Fel, a pilot who had just returned from patrol, later reported to Solo and several others that the firebreak lines carved by the Lillibanca had held. The crew of the Lillibanca included a male communications officer who handled communications between Solo and the cruiser. The Lillibanca appeared in Aaron Allston's 2007 novel Legacy of the Force: Fury, the seventh volume in the Star Wars: Legacy of the Force series. *Legacy of the Force: Fury *Legacy of the Force: Fury abridged audiobook Category:Cruisers Category:Starships of the Confederation Fleet