179935
https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Hall_(entity)
Hall (entity)
5025

"Hall" was the name given to an intelligence that inhabited the central chamber of the Great Pyramid on Rafa V, a structure left behind by the vanished Sharu civilization to contain the precious artifact known as the Mindharp, which supposedly held the power to restore the Sharu to their former glory. Hall had significant power over those who entered its chamber, including having the ability to radically alter the size of organic visitors. In 3 BBY, after millennia of isolation, Hall finally entertained offworlder Lando Calrissian and his droid Vuffi Raa, whom had been hired to retrieve the Mindharp&mdash;Hall aided Calrissian and Raa in acquiring the artifact. An intelligence inhabiting and controlling the central chamber of the Great Pyramid on the planet Rafa V, Hall became active during the dying days of the Sharu civilization, when the highly advanced race came under threat by the seemingly all-powerful Celestials.The New Essential Chronology The Sharu's plan for avoiding conflict with the Celestials was to completely transform their society&mdash;the Sharu drained their higher intelligence into life-crystals and assumed the identity of the Toka, or "Broken People," a civilization of unassuming primitives who would evade notice. Hall's task was simple: protect the Mindharp, the priceless artifact that had the power to allow the Toka to recall their former glory, regain their intelligence and restore the Sharu. Popular belief among the Toka held that two offworlders, the "Key Bearer" and the "Emissary," would one day arrive to activate the Mindharp and liberate the Sharu. In a sense, that came to pass in 3 BBY, when gambler and smuggler Lando Calrissian, his droid Vuffi Raa, and Toka High Singer Mohs accessed the Great Pyramid after Sorcerer of Tund Rokur Gepta and local Imperial governor Duttes Mer had hired Calrissian to find the Mindharp. Hall initially mistook Vuffi Raa for one of the Pyramid's maintenance drones, and executed a repair function that inadvertently wiped Raa of any memory of Mohs. Still, the visitors trudged onward&mdash;despite the fact that Hall made Calrissian much larger than Raa, hampering their communication&mdash;before finally making direct contact with the intelligence in the central chamber. Hall made amicable contact with Calrissian and Raa and gently ushered them to the Mindharp, before the visitors were teleported offworld to the Rafa IV city of Teguta Lusat. An intelligence inhabiting the central hall of the Great Pyramid&mdash;in fact, it presented itself simply as the Hall itself&mdash;Hall had been granted significant power over everything within the giant structure. Among its abilities, Hall could radically alter the size and mass of living beings and objects within the Pyramid, but was quite accommodating and willing to aid visitors, changing their size immediately upon request. Hall's power over the composition of matter gave it a unique view on the universe, perceiving all matter as simply organized information that could be compressed and expanded without changing the same basic core. Over its millennia in isolation on Rafa V, Hall developed a unique personality, finding that it had an increasing tendency towards aimless daydreaming and enjoying the peace and quiet of isolation within the Great Pyramid. Hall appeared in Lando Calrissian and the Mindharp of Sharu, a novel written by L. Neil Smith and released in 1983. *Lando Calrissian and the Mindharp of Sharu *The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia Category:Individuals Category:Pre-Republic Category:Rooms